Eggplants always grow best under warm conditions .
Farmland is sometimes a challenge to farmers .
Farmers should be encouraged to grow more coffee .
Uganda is focusing on farming .
Some plants die due to lack of sunlight .
Where can we get good resistant varieties that are highly marketable ?
Cassava stems are always needed for planting .
The garden has diseased tomato plants .
How do you access market information for sweet potatoes ?
The radio station has given us a platform to sell our vegetables .
Mobile phones have enabled me to get pesticide information for beans .
Last month ,  I needed passion fruit information .
Market information for bananas should be given to all farmers .
Farmers need information on companies that have good seedlings for tomatoes .
Some of the shops where farmers can get fertilizers and good planting materials .
Farming programs on radio provide information on how to access cassava planting materials .
There are several cassava varieties that can grow in that area .
When farmers get information about disease outbreaks early ,  it helps them to plan better .
Farmers can benefit a lot from advice on disease control .
Every Monday ,  farmers are given advice on coffee growing .
Farmers need weather advice to help them plan better .
The ministry has provided advice to farmers on how to plant cassava .
It is advisable for everyone in the district to have a garden .
Some of the important practices in agriculture: spacing ,  weeding ,  pest and disease control .
Farmers are given a platform to ask any agricultural related questions .
Farmers are advised to grow crop varieties with high demand .
There are several recommendable pesticides when spraying beans .
Agriculture has a lot of benefits for smallholder farmers .
The production of different crop varieties is what will help that man .
We acquire information on how to store our produce from radio broadcasts .
Information on how to grow citrus fruits and vegetables is very useful for farmers .
Information on weather forecasts and preparation of the garden for planting .
Some radio discussions highlight the good markets for farmers' produce .
Farming programs aired on radio help farmers to know the good planting seasons .
Farmers gain knowledge on planting good seeds ,  and the diseases affecting their crops .
Certain organisations provide information to farmers on crop inputs and varieties via radio .
The birds have eaten all the maize cobs in that woman's garden .
This yellow leaf with a purple base is diseased .
The leaf has yellow linings and rust in the middle .
Maize leaf rust causes the tip of a leaf to dry .
Some of the diseased leaves have dried up .
Some of the yellow leaves on this plant are folded on one side .
One of the symptoms of maize leaf rust and maize blight is yellowing leaves .
The patches on the leaves is not a good sign for the crop .
The top part of the maize plant has been eaten by these loitering goats .
Weeding is a good farming practice that everyone should know about .
The sorghum is good and healthy and this will give us better yields .
I think this plant is diseased because all its leaves are yellow .
We are most likely to have no yield from this plant .
Some of the groundnut plants have been eaten by termites .
Brown spots in the middle part of the affected leaves .
The affected leaf might have been due to bad weather .
The animals that loiter through the garden have damaged all the crops .
These diseased leaves are drying because they are being suppressed by the weeds .
The poor banana yields are as a result of maize leaf rust .
Stunted growth of the bananas is a result of weeds in the garden .
This damaged plant might have been eaten by the Fall armyworm .
The garden needs to be weeded because it is in a bushy environment .
The top shoot has been eaten by the Fall armyworm .
The maize is in a bushy garden and it has leaf rust .
The potato plant has both purple stripes and brown spots on the leaves .
This plant has yellow leaves with brown spots between the veins .
The tomato leaves are yellow and dry .
The leaves have pods because of the pests .
Normally the white spots on the maize leaves are brought about by the pests .
The white spots on the Maize leaves are as a result of the Fall armyworm .
The cassava leaves have yellow stripes at the base .
One of the common deficiencies in orange plants is yellowing of the leaf tips .
The maize leaves are full of holes because they are being eaten by pests .
A farmer in Bukujju village showed us some of the diseased plants in his garden .
In Kayunga district ,  most of the gardens have diseased maize plantations .
There are very many bean diseased plants in this area .
The brown colour on the coffee leaves is as a result of common rust .
Fall Armyworm is feeding on the maize leaf .
The presence of weeds in a garden causes the maizes leaves to turn into yellow .
This maize plant has rust because of the disease .
The grains of this maize plant are bigger in size which is not normal .
Maize Streak Disease makes the middle line on the leaf to turn yellow .
The goats have eaten the maize in the garden .
One of the symptoms of a plant affected by maize streak disease is yellow leaves .
The maize leaf has been eaten as a result of fall armyworm .
This plant has been affected by the maize disease because the leaf has a grey colour .
Maize has been affected by the Fall Army Worm .
People with small lands can practice farming to earn a living .
The government encourages people to use good planting materials to get better yields .
Farmers have no market for maize .
You can increase your harvest in the following ways .
Beekeeping generates food and income .
The demand for rabbits has been increasing in recent days .
Farmers in Uganda face a lot of challenges associated with crop diseases and the weather .
An expert in agriculture and nutrition dominated the food awards .
Late spraying is the reason why the food we have now days is contaminated .
Can debt cancellation revive the economy ?
Be cautious about how you spend your finances .
Exhibitions are one way of marketing a new product .
Leasing is also one way of putting to use idle assets .
There are quite many investment opportunities in the private sector .
Majority of the banks offer loans .
Schools now days focus on training students on how to run business .
Setting up industries can help to create jobs for many people Ugandans .
It will take a while for the country's economy to go back where it was .
The government now wants to examine all the transaction books of various companies .
Increasing the prices of goods can either make you profits or loses .
Pineapple farmers want industries where they can change their fruits into other products .
Experts say that business owners need to be knowledgeable in order to be successful .
Banks take people's property by force especially on failure to clear the loan .
Using mobile money to buy and sell goods has increased in the first half of this year .
You should learn how to transform your business after the lockdown .
Ugandan advises citizens to use money given to them to start businesses .
A big supermarket is closing all its branches .
The airport has been opened again for business .
The estate manager has been given two days to clear all his debtors .
Oil exports will bring in a lot of money for the country .
Financial institutions have to pay bonuses to people .
It is always good to determine the resale value of a used car .
Three banks have closed due to the pandemic .
I think they will retain the award come next year .
It is very vital for media firms to have talented journalists .
That television station currently has the best investigative reporters in the media arena .
How will Ugandan business owners benefit from digital tax ?
She said that so far they have received one hundred nineteen million shillings from the bank .
Maybe the oil prices will finally go down next month .
Business owners in Uganda opt for online marketing to contain pandemic challenges .
Uganda's economy will grow once it starts extracting its oil in Western Uganda .
Business owners need to find new ways of doing business during these days of quarantine .
Ugandan businessmen should think of exporting beef to South Sudan
Ankole clans make celebrations for their first annual harvest .
Makerere University performs well in the African region .
Uganda supports female scientist .
Schools ought to fund their activities .
The reopening of universities has brought confusion amongst the students .
Candidates are expected to go back to school soon .
The Uganda Examination Board are yet to decide when students will sit their exams .
The government says there is no money to help people to study online .
Schools should not increase school fees .
There are many newly established government schools this year .
The school headteacher has been arrested for beating the underage girls .
The ministry of education notified schools of the revised exam time table .
Do u think this academic year should be cancelled ?
The government refuses to comment on when educational institutions would resume .
It is always important for the ministry of education to oversee all school issues .
The government has allowed educational institutions to open up for final year students .
Educational institutions are to be changed into treatment points .
Every student is awaiting the date when schools will eventually resume .
Why are some school girls opting for abortion instead of keeping the pregnancy ?
Drama is very fun .
Wedding ceremonies are not for the rich only .
What are the benefits of music nominations ?
Reality television shows usually come to an end unexpectedly .
We have lost many talented artists over the years .
It is my goal to be the leading movie actor .
The International dance event will be broadcasted live on television in September .
Musicians have been denied permission to stage a show in Kampala .
We should make laws that can assist in fighting defilers .
Nearly ten thousand girls were defiled between January and June .
Not all coronavirus test results come back accurately and in time .
Coronavirus test kits are being questioned by the public .
The task force has also been tasked to review the status of the remaining sector .
Diseases spread and can also lead to deaths .
Health check-ups are a necessity .
Pandemic diseases often spread faster and may most likely lead to deaths .
What is the meaning of cholesterol ?
It is very possible for every woman to conceive naturally .
Exercises are very good for maintaining a healthy body .
Milk has lots of health benefits .
Expand medical treatment units where necessary .
Medical professionals also need to be appreciated for their good work .
Coronavirus deaths are increasing in Uganda .
During the coronavirus outbreak ,  people began making masks out of clothes .
Coronavirus infections keep on increasing but also some people are recovering from the virus .
There is still no coronavirus vaccine .
Hospital workers go on strike over delayed salary payments .
Men have been affected by coronavirus more than women .
coronavirus deaths are nearing to a million .
The Police post in kawempe closes after one arrested person was found with coronavirus .
Research says that the coronavirus can attack the human brain .
Coronavirus has no cure or vaccine of late .
if you want to be healthy drink milk daily .
We want to know if social distancing exists .
Health workers were appreciated for the good work done .
There are more cases from samples collected at the entry points of the country .
There will be a daily release of coronavirus results by the Ministry of Health .
There are more coronavirus cases in the truck drivers .
Some patients have not fully recovered from the sickness .
Truck drivers from neighbouring countries contribute the highest number of coronavirus cases in Uganda .
What are the signs and symptoms of coronavirus ?
Frontline health workers have joined the number of individuals who have contracted coronavirus .
The samples for the contacts were taken for testing .
Thanks should be extended to health workers in the Northern region .
The amount of money required to take a coronavirus test will be communicated .
There is a delay in releasing results for the samples that were tested .
All tests from the eleven foreigners turned out to be positive .
Truck drivers who tested positive for coronavirus were taken back to their home countries .
More coronavirus patients were realised after testing in June .
Samples were taken from their immediate contacts and also from the health workers .
People were advised to wear a mask while in public .
The coronavirus test is very expensive .
The government offered to distribute masks to all Ugandans countrywide .
A few coronavirus recoveries have been realised .
Patients that tested negative for coronavirus in Gulu have been discharged .
Nowadays every private hospital asks for a consultation fee .
More coronavirus patients have been confirmed negative twice .
More truck drivers entering from Mutukula are being diagnosed with coronavirus .
There will be a live update on the coronavirus cases by the minister of Health .
The public will get daily updates about coronavirus .
Doctors happily discharged all their patients who had initially tested positive for coronavirus .
Only one health frontline worker has died .
There is a continuous rise in the number of people with coronavirus disease .
More coronavirus patients have recovered from the disease .
The sleep under a mosquito net campaign aims at preventing the spread of malaria .
There are more coronavirus recoveries even with the increasing number of infections .
There were more coronavirus samples tested in June .
Coronavirus patients who tested negative were discharged from the hospital in Entebbe .
Gas cylinders were provided as a donation towards the fight of coronavirus .
Samples were taken from individuals having coronavirus symptoms at a research institute .
The foreign nationals who tested negative for coronavirus will undergo self-isolation .
Do's and Don'ts have been put in place to actively control the spread of coronavirus
Human resource personnel is needed for the upcoming mosquito net campaign .
Some journalists will be rewarded for creating awareness on health issues .
Ambulances and firefighting equipment have been donated to the government .
Handkerchiefs should either be washed well as a measure to prevent the spread of coronavirus .
An unborn baby can get hepatitis from its infected mother .
Alcohol-based sanitizers can be used to reduce coronavirus infections .
Staying home when having flu-like symptoms can be a preventive measure against coronavirus .
The health task force is appreciated for its tireless work towards saving lives .
Hospitals are advised to start record digitalization for better management .
There is ongoing health supervision in every district .
Free mosquito nets will be distributed countrywide by the government of Uganda .
The Ministry of Health has put in place guidelines for safe mass gatherings .
The Ministry of Health issued coronavirus self-quarantine guidelines .
The general public has been informed of the upcoming sickle cell campaign .
All schools should follow health guidelines on mass gatherings .
A minister advised that schools remain open .
The Ministry of Health needs more equipment to enhance Uganda's preparedness on coronavirus .
An unknown resident of Kampala was put under mandatory self-quarantine .
The coronavirus toll-free lines were provided by the Ministry of Health .
We need a public demonstration of how the coronavirus screening process is done .
Please avoid gatherings and public places during these pandemic times .
The public has been urged to avoid handshaking and hugging at all times .
Those who showed signs and symptoms of coronavirus have tested negative .
The coronavirus toll-free line has been restored and issues have been rectified .
All travellers are being screened for coronavirus at the border points .
The permanent secretary will be live on television tonight .
A suspected coronavirus case from Masaka region has turned out to be negative .
The ministry of health has not yet confirmed any coronavirus case in Uganda .
Wash hands with soap and water to prevent the spread of coronavirus .
The president will address the nation today to provide further guidance on coronavirus .
Blood samples are run three times to confirm the coronavirus negative result .
The  Ugandan who arrived from Dubai is the first confirmed coronavirus case in Uganda .
Everyone is advised to stay alert and calm in case they showcase coronavirus symptoms .
A coronavirus case was confirmed in Uganda .
Entebbe International Airport was closed as a measure to curb the spread of coronavirus .
Eight new coronavirus cases have been confirmed by the Ministry of Health .
People in urban areas have been heavily affected by the pandemic .
You can prevent the spread of coronavirus by practising social distancing .
Wash your hands with soap and water for twenty seconds three times a day .
Every Ugandan has something to say about the coronavirus outbreak in Uganda .
The ministry of health is working with its partners on better sensitisation channels .
He met with the Health Services Director-General .
The Virus Research Institute runs the Coronavirus samples .
Why don't you stay at home if you are not feeling well ?
Coronavirus cases are increasing in Uganda .
Pregnant women need special attention while in the hospital .
We have three new cases of coronavirus patients today .
Company staff are now testing positive for coronavirus .
The pandemic cases in that district are now reducing .
The clinic has taken the baby's parents to the police because they failed to pay for the surgery .
The health minister has emphasized the need to have good regional hospitals .
Health centres should opt for more accurate ways of blood testing .
We should stand together with those who are suffering from heart diseases .
Coronavirus cases and deaths have risen .
The elections are likely to be violent and may lead to the spread of the virus .
Branded milk is safer for children compared to milk sold on the streets .
Teenage pregnancies are on the increase and something should be done about it .
The number of coronavirus disease infections and deaths increases every now and then .
Government reports show that minors too can get infected with the coronavirus .
A patient who died of coronavirus disease will be laid to rest this September .
You can only find out if you have coronavirus disease after being diagnosed .
If you want to keep healthy you have to do daily exercises .
In Uganda ,  online media platforms have to get authorisation nowadays .
The seminar for fighting fake news has been arranged .
It is interesting that we now have to pay tax to use the phone .
Uganda needs a good data privacy policy .
The communications regulator ensures telecommunication companies follow set guidelines .
Garbage should be collected daily or burnt .
Irresponsible members in the community dump garbage anywhere .
Garbage attracts flies .
Some diseases can be prevented .
Business managers should be mindful of the cleanliness of their surrounding .
A dirty environment hinders business growth because it chases away customers .
Garbage stinks when rotten .
Authorities should come up with strategies to manage garbage in towns .
Garbage is collected every month to avoid accumulation .
We advocate for a corrupt-free world .
Ugandans are peaceful and loving people .
International traders face challenges while operating in foreign countries .
All neighbouring countries should sign the agreement .
What is being done to help pregnant mothers in refugee camps ?
Employment leads to improved household income .
Unity could lead to economic transformation .
International trade is of great benefit to all nations .
Border communities need to be very vigilant during this pandemic .
Neighbouring nations need to collaborate .
It seems girl child education is usually taken for granted .
The probability that a girl will finish school is lower than that of a boy .
Government-aided schools provide fair education services to the public .
We should protect and educated girl children .
Parents should responsibly take care of their children .
School dropouts are more common in rural areas .
Fundraising campaigns create awareness about the need to raise funds .
He managed to complete school because of the support from his education sponsors .
Lack of tuition fees is one great challenge faced by students .
What reasons do youths give for dropping out of school ?
Organisations have now come up to help the needy in the community .
Help the needy members in society .
The local defence unit protects people in the community .
Recruitment exercise involves interaction between the employer and the applicant .
Keep trying even if you fail .
Education is the key to success .
Education leads to creativity and innovation that could result in development .
Most people lose out on job opportunities because they did not attend school .
Communities should be sensitised on the benefits of education .
Recruitments at the district level are usually massive .
Usually ,  the employer sets a target number of required recruits .
Gulu district is one of the districts in Uganda .
Most of the local defence unit recruits are youths .
The local defence unit has cruel officers .
Adequate planning needs to be done in order to grow the education sector .
Sports and education work should be done hand in hand .
The government of Uganda has availed lots of grants for public schools .
What causes some children not to pass well in school ?
Agricultural equipment is very expensive for farmers .
Many children fail to complete school because of inadequate funds .
Getting involved in a business is one way of finding children's school fees .
Other sectors like agriculture and business support education in one way or the other .
Education should be affordable for everyone .
The education sector requires funding .
The community should be sensitised on hygiene and sanitation-related issues .
Authorities have the obligation to prevent crime .
There is an ongoing project to build toilets for people in the community .
One needs a licence to operate legally .
Hygiene is one way of preventing diseases .
Misplacement of human waste can lead to diseases .
It is hard to find a clean market .
A market attracts very many people from different societies and backgrounds .
He was falsely accused but let us wait for the court ruling .
Some companies failed to pay their workers during the lockdown period .
Health workers have not been appreciated for their efforts .
Workers can now choose to work from home or come to the office .
Coronavirus has spread in every country in the world .
Every company is under pressure to provide a safe working environment for its workers .
Ugandans working abroad have been stopped from coming back due to the pandemic .
All contracts were terminated by the business owner .
Employees are encouraged to take leave in order to improve their health .
Most of the employees decided to resign from the radio station .
Very many people have lost their jobs during the lockdown .
The pandemic caused disruption to many business activities .
You should check with the lands office before you buy land .
I received a message on my phone that money had been paid .
Where can I find good furniture ?
I don't have the required qualifications for that job .
You need to register your business first .
Very many small businesses in Uganda are not registered .
Refugees need to be helped while in a new country .
I need to renew my driving permit .
Uganda has closed its borders to stop the spread of Ebola .
Child neglect cases have increased during the lockdown .
It is wrong to release patient records to the public .
Every person needs privacy at a certain moment in time .
There is an increasing habit of spreading fake news .
You can not borrow money from that bank without a bank account .
Every company should make sure that its workers have insurance .
Businesses in the city centre have been told to close until further notice .
People should take caution before borrowing money from money lenders .
Banks and telecom companies have been told to reduce fees on digital transactions .
Banks will be open for only six hours a day .
Bank of Uganda supervises all financial institutions in Uganda .
The foreign exchange rates are increasing every day .
Moneylenders are increasing interests every day .
Courts are set to resume after the pandemic .
Time management is very important during a court hearing .
The judge said that the court will be closed early today .
Few people will be allowed in court today .
We need more judges to work on the very many pending cases .
The pandemic led to the suspension of all court proceedings .
The court judgements can be sent to the applicants via email .
He made his submission to court last week .
The chief justice suspended the court hearings after the new presidential directives on Sunday .
Local governments are responsible to enforce regulations .
The new health directives will be effective starting tomorrow .
The president has issued new health directives to the nation .
The ministry of health can not fight this virus without help from the public .
Please take note of the current circumstances before you go on to complain .
Make sure that your actions are within the law .
All the measures offered are within the law .
New ways of working have come up during the pandemic .
The lawyer requested the judge to settle the case outside the court .
You need to get a lawyer if you want this issue to be resolved .
What are the repercussions if he is convicted of fraud ?
They did not follow the formal process while applying for jobs .
You need to make a decision today .
The court hearing for the murder case is next week .
I could not believe the court ruling was on our side .
They need to get legal advice from the right lawyer .
The fate of this court case is in hands of the judge .
What happened between them ?
Everyone needs the freedom to freely express their ideas .
We had a very long discussion on phone .
Some of the court rules have nothing to do with the actual dispute .
The court hearing is tomorrow before noon .
When will the court ruling be made ?
You can not rely on everyone .
Nothing said in this discussion should be disclosed to the public .
The information in the mediation is very confidential .
The good thing about settling a case at mediation is confidentiality .
To successfully settle the case outside court every party needs to give up something .
Usually ,  the parties are given an opportunity to work out their relationships .
When a case is settled at mediation it's different from a normal court case .
Parties rarely reconcile after settling these cases .
You need proof before you take him to court .
Many become friends again after settling their cases at mediation .
Each party bears its costs when you settle the case at mediation
He was asked for a lot of money to be bailed out .
Justice delayed is justice denied .
The plaintiff wasn't satisfied with the court ruling .
The defendant may be dead before the next court meeting .
The wife and the husband will be brought to court on Monday .
The judge usually decides what happens in court .
Everyone is waiting for the court ruling .
We prepared the evidence early enough before the next court sitting .
This dispute can only be settled in the courts of law .
The lawyer advised that settling the case at mediation will save time .
The judge hasn't arrived yet .
Sometimes court allows parties to resolve issues outside court .
They need to choose a mediator who has the relevant qualifications .
The defendant requested an interpreter before he could say anything in court .
Thirteen years have passed since mediation was introduced by the High Court .
Twenty-five per cent of convicted criminals are not criminals .
Uganda produces the second-best lawyers in East Africa followed by Tanzania and Rwanda .
To avoid going to court one needs to avoid committing crimes .
You should file a suit against that company .
The prosecutor couldn't answer the judge's question .
Everyone has a right to seek justice .
Laws at times oppress and lead people to death .
The bail application is acceptable in court .
Wrongdoers should be arrested .
Some people are exempted from punishment .
The court ruling is legal .
Illegal acts are condemned by the court .
Criminals should not go unpunished .
Uganda's justice system discourages the use of violence in elections .
Uganda now has a new chief justice .
The people who were involved in a church demolition case were released on bail .
The president believes that a killer should also be killed .
The lawyer has been moved to another court .
The lawyers talked to the police about the opposition candidate .
The leader has managed to swear in three new judges .
My lawyer is lodging an appeal anytime from today .
A suspect was convicted trying to access the head of the legislature
It's the taxpayer's money that is wasted when the government loses a court case .
Rules are part of every community .
Some teachers are usually biased .
We need honest representatives .
Businesses survive on debt .
The final judgement was reached in today's court session .
I don't like to pay rent .
Let us share the profits before closing the business .
Courts enforce the available laws .
We need solutions not more complaints .
The sales for this year are more than those for last year .
I am the salesperson for this company .
I am one of the company representatives .
Very many people are going to vote in this election .
I want to start a mobile money business in Kasubi .
You have no reason to fear .
Can you please relax ?
A taxpayer must have a tax identification number .
Fraud is on the increase in Kampala .
Some shops in town do not pay taxes .
Taxpayers' records should be kept safely for future reference .
Tax fraud is illegal and punishable by law .
Some citizens do not like to pay tax .
There are many con men in town .
Evidence confirms allegations made .
The government is taxing citizens by taxing products for home use .
Some cases are referrals for purposes of the law .
Courts must give a fair and just ruling .
One is innocent until proven guilty .
Legislators are the leading lawbreakers
Every business must file a tax return .
Fraud is punishable by law .
The revenue authority team at the border is very tough .
Value-added tax is commonly charged on products .
The accused shaded tears in court to try and prove her innocence .
Laws have been established to prevent fraud and other related crimes .
We need to add new stock to the shop next month .
This court case is taking longer than we anticipated .
Decisions made must be clear and understandable for everyone .
Allegations alone are not enough to prove that one is guilty .
Uganda Revenue Authority is in charge of collecting taxes in Uganda .
It is the taxpayers' obligation to pay taxes every financial year .
What makes some things to become too hard to understand ?
Court operates on evidence availed .
Civil servants need a pay rise .
Every business needs to pay its taxes on time .
The manager was fired due to allegations of fraud made by employees .
Tax fraud is increasing .
Penalties are small punishments usually for not doing something on time .
Taxpayers are usually not comfortable declaring all their earnings .
Every purchase is taxed .
Business owners should be aware of their obligation to pay taxes .
Tax reduces one's profitable income .
Why should credit be given to this customer ?
Companies send invoices to each other in case of any transactions between them .
Most taxpayers feel that tax is a burden to them .
Courts handle all sorts of cases that are legally abiding .
With improved technology ,  people now find it easy to pay taxes .
High taxes lead to increased prices .
Washing of hands is now the order of the day .
Controls and measures are put to prevent the spread of diseases .
People are tested first before any disease is confirmed .
Quarantine is now a mandate for all people coming from abroad .
Public needs restrictions on certain things .
Viral diseases can lead to deaths .
Coronavirus patients are under strict observation .
Good pay can be a great motivation for medical officers .
Medical officers put on gloves and masks to avoid direct contact with infected patients .
People go to hospitals for health assistance .
Coronavirus has killed four members of parliament .
Patients need treatment to be well .
Livestock can be a source of income .
Concerts usually attract people from different homes and societies .
Public meetings can lead to the spread of the disease .
Ceremonies like marriage and funerals shall continue to exist as long as people exist .
Places of worship are a source of hope to the majority of the people .
People go to bars and cinema halls for leisure .
They should have punished him for all the things he did in the past .
Every company that pays taxes receives a special rewards .
Businesses pay three kinds of taxes .
The president has removed taxes on roadside shops .
How do you reward loyal customers ?
Most shop owners dodge tax payments .
Every village should have a court to manage domestic violence issues .
Internet was shut down for five days in Uganda .
The prices of things go up during the festive season .
Nowadays you have to wash your hands before you enter the bank .
The army has done well in fighting the spread of the disease .
Some people take medicine without  medical check up .
People are quarantined in expensive hotels .
You should not go to restricted places .
What do you have to say about the new virus ?
It is so sad and painful .
The president said that scientists are going to be paid well .
Two medical doctors have died of corona virus .
Nurses in government hospitals should learn to behave well .
Corona patients are under government observation .
The new doctor was the first to come into the hospital .
Some farmers don't have enough money to rent more land .
All December concerts were banned .
He fell sick during the meeting .
I missed attending his father's funeral .
He decided to open up a new church .
The bars will not be opened this year .
Closure of schools might lead to increased school dropouts .
Public gatherings can lead to the spread of the disease .
Uganda put a ban on the importation of commodities that are locally manufactured .
The truth will always set you free .
Offences are done by people .
Medical information should be accessible to everyone .
Advice from medical officers is crucial to our healthy wellbeing
Medical officers monitor the health state of their patients .
Quarantining patients helps with diseases control .
Different categories of people enter into Uganda .
Immigrants in Uganda could be one of the leading causes of diseases .
Foreigners are welcomed in Uganda .
Law and order must be followed and obeyed by the public .
Caution must be taken to avoid the spread of diseases .
Living in a clean environment prevents diseases .
Patients ought to follow instructions as given by the doctor .
A healthy community is the joy of the nation .
Prevent diseases early in order to avoid later repercussions .
Laws are implemented for the good of the public .
Employment boosts the economy .
Employers need to show concern for their employees .
Unemployment is as a result of various factors .
A job is a source of financial hope for most employees .
In some companies ,  employees work on schedule .
Employees are obligated to work during working hours .
Employees assist in company decision making .
Every business aims at making a profit .
An employee can not rejoice upon termination .
Informally hired employees are just fired without a termination contract .
I will not resign this year .
You should throw a party for your employees before this year ends .
You have a right to work .
What are some of the economic difficulties facing businesses ?
A four weeks notice should be given to employees before termination .
Why don't you work from home instead of going to the office ?
Non-essential workers will be affected by the pandemic .
Employees will not work during leave periods .
When are you planning to start a business ?
Employees are entitled to paid sick leave .
Employers and employees should discuss paid or unpaid leave .
We are in dangerous times .
Employees were advised to take annual leave during the lockdown days .
Paid or unpaid leave should be justified .
Employers should not force employees to go on leave .
Employee leave is only granted when requested .
Employees can reject leave suggested by employers .
We don't have enough financial capacity .
Some workers can work from home .
Some employees receive an hourly pay based on daily completion of work .
Patients visitors' are going to be affected by the new guidelines .
I need a job that pays me a monthly salary .
The recruitment of a new employee will take some time .
My employers reasons for terminating my contract are not sufficient .
Every business is struggling in this pandemic .
There should be a reason for employee termination just as there was for employment .
There should be justifiable reasons for employee termination .
Some employers are using the pandemic as a reason to terminate employee contracts .
Some employers are using coronavirus losses as an excuse to terminate employee contracts .
Businesses need some financial support from the government to survive this period .
You should mind your employee's health .
I'm going to close this business next year .
Have you thought about recruiting a new team ?
You can terminate the employee's contract if they fail to fulfil their obligations .
We shall settle this matter in courts of law .
How many people do you employ ?
You need to recruit new employees .
I'm tired of going to the office every Monday .
Transparency is very important in a relationship .
All seasonal markets should close in order to stop the spread of the disease .
She is on maternity leave up to next year .
I need to find a job before the year ends .
I can't wait to sign a new contract with this company .
Contract terms will guide employers on how to deal with employees .
Employers must refer to the employment contract before making any employment decisions .
Businessmen are not happy with the new tax on imports .
Employer decisions will affect all employee .
Employer decisions on employees have legal implications .
The coronavirus pandemic has forced employers to cut employees salaries .
The coronavirus pandemic has disrupted the seasonal market activities .
People have been advised to stay home because of the coronavirus pandemic .
Customers should be protected from unreasonable price hikes .
There should be security measures on the storage and usage of data .
Data collection can only be done after consent from the owners .
Public health should be the government's priority .
Every patient's details are confidential .
I have heard rumours that a new land bill is coming soon .
Information about this issue is very sensitive .
Landlords need to be patient with their tenants .
Tenants need to endeavour to pay their landlords in time .
Tenants may not effectively pay landlords because of the coronavirus pandemic .
it is unlikely that the president will talk about the rent issue .
Tenants need protection from the landlord's oppression .
We need to find better ways to serve our customers .
Taxpayers are expected to continue paying tax during the coronavirus pandemic .
Is it illegal to start a business without a certificate ?
Manufacturers of sanitisers will receive tax waivers .
No disruption is expected when filing tax returns ,  obtaining assessments and tax payment .
The public is encouraged to use online services to avoid lining up .
Every business has got its own risks .
We need to sign a contract before we do business together .
At times ,  it is impossible to fulfil contractual obligations .
We are tired of the increasing taxes on clothes .
Contracts can easily be changed before being signed .
The new contracts are still pending .
Employers should mind about the health of their employees .
Any unforeseen circumstances can lead to a review of contracts .
Employees have a right to discuss their salary reduction .
Street children need to be supported during the lockdown period .
Sick employees are entitled to sick leave .
Small scale businesses need financial support .
Absence from work is registered as sick leave if the quarantined employee is ill .
Employees should not be affected by the quarantine if they can work from home .
Employers are still expected to pay workers on days they fail to provide work .
Employers should ensure that every employee has work to do .
Employees decided on the issue of unpaid leave .
Employers should compensate their employees before terminating their contracts .
Employees should be notified before the termination of their contracts .
Termination should only be done if employer business is facing a shutdown .
Some businesses have shut down because of the pandemic .
It is an act of kindness if employers treat the lockdown period as leave .
The employee act is against the reduction of employee wages .
Employees should be paid the same regardless of where they come from .
Irrigation is an important practice in agriculture .
Farming can improve standards of living .
Projects ought to be feasible .
Crop rotation increases plant yields .
This will raise the productivity of farmers .
The agricultural outreaches are being carried out across the country .
Different means are being used by authorities to educate communities about agriculture .
People are being sensitized about animal health .
Many homesteads have a vegetable garden .
Vegetable growing has been adopted by many people hence increased vegetable oil production .
Crop protection increases food security .
Campaigns should be run to advocate for crop growing and protection .
Vegetable oil production is an example of value addition to agricultural produce .
Crops grown include vegetables .
The focus should be put on agricultural development .
The nation should be sensitized about the importance of agriculture .
Several materials is being shared with farmers to upskill them .
Farmers participate in legalisation through their cooperatives .
There is more quality assurance in services purchased by farmers under cooperatives .
Farmers receive professional advice through cooperatives .
Farmer cooperatives increase the supply of agricultural products .
Farmer cooperatives usually seek collective market for farmers' produce .
There is a lot of advice about farming that can be got from cooperatives .
It is cheaper for a single farmer to access certain services under a cooperative .
Farmers should not only think about their local markets .
It is easy to fund farmers that belong to cooperatives .
Farmers benefit a lot from being part of cooperatives .
Farmer cooperatives are very instrumental in marketing produce .
Central Uganda has a high population .
Entrepreneurial farmers should always add value to their produce .
Several initiatives are being done to enhance the beef industry .
There is an increase in water access to farmers today .
There is a need for extra storage facilities of farmer's produce .
Farmers store the extra harvest in granaries .
Outreaches on good agricultural practices will be carried out .
Farmers should consult experts about any challenges in agriculture .
They should also be advised about the most marketable crops in the local market .
Farmers need to be advised about plants to grow in given seasons .
Entrepreneurial skills among farmers help to increase their revenue .
Rabies is one of the diseases that affect animals and people .
Animals also suffer from diseases .
We need more veterinary doctors in Uganda .
There is a need for more funding in agriculture
Technology has a role to play in the agricultural sector .
Some agricultural products are exported as well .
Maize is usually in high demand .
Farmers carry out mixed farming .
Productivity increased with subsidies on agricultural products .
Different farming techniques could be adopted to increase food production .
Communities need to be educated about nutrition .
They studied agriculture and graduated this year .
People should be educated about their diet .
Meat production business is doing well these days .
Government intervention in agriculture can be through farmer cooperatives .
Farmer cooperatives can be a marketing base .
Farmers cooperatives also offer financial support to farmers .
Cooperatives offer technical support to farmers .
Their vision and mission highlight development .
Cattle keepers can also form cooperatives .
Sensitization about different farming practices is ongoing .
Farmers should be sensitized about agricultural seasons .
Vanilla is a largely grown cash crop .
Farmers should focus on planting quality seeds for the best harvest .
Farmers should know that they reap what they sow .
Efforts are being made to improve the health of people living near lake Victoria .
East Africa greatly benefits from Lake Victoria economically .
Lake Victoria is large .
Lake Victoria has contributed to the development of East Africa .
Lake Victoria cuts across three East African countries .
Challenges faced by youth in agribusiness will be discussed .
Youth should be equipped with agribusiness skills .
Farmers should seek advice on how to prevent animal diseases .
Animal diseases lead to low yields .
Anthrax is not exactly contagious .
Anthrax is more common in animals than people in Uganda .
Anthrax is quite challenging to control .
Anthrax can also be contacted by human beings .
Anthrax is one of the animal diseases .
The diseases can be categorized based on different grounds .
Animal diseases are really many .
Ugandans rear a wide variety of animals .
Many Ugandans carry practice agriculture .
Contagious diseases spread faster in overpopulated regions .
He shared the signs of the disease .
Unhealthy communities take longer to develop .
There are many new diseases .
The list of contagious diseases is long .
Awareness of livestock health has been ongoing .
They provided food relief to communities .
There are demonstrations of different farming practices tomorrow .
Many lakes have water hyacinth .
Biogas is a cheaper energy source .
Daily challenges are a gateway to innovation .
Development is aimed to improve everyone's standard of living .
Technology has manifested a lot in efforts to improve the agricultural sector .
Poultry farming is practised by a good number of people .
It is always good to have a role model .
What age should one stop being single ?
Thanks to living veterans who serve their country .
Losers can be winners too .
Outrage is a feeling of anger and shock .
Protests can lead to death .
Everyone has something they cherish at heart .
Durable items are the most expensive on the market .
Age should not be a limitation for anything you may want .
We all should love one another .
While at the hill ,  you can easily have a wider view of the surrounding .
Men of late are fond of gossiping with fellow men .
Fulfilling promises is one way of winning one's trust .
Good resolutions encourage unity in society .
Decide now to focus on your future .
What is your ideal workplace ?
Think of a way to change his mind .
Never trust hypocrites .
Passion for what you do is one key to success .
Mistakes need to be amended where possible .
Age is not a limitation to those with a purpose in life .
Everyone has a secret .
Couples planning to get married should know a lot of things before their wedding .
There is no problem admitting our mistakes .
Husband and wife ought to be faithful to each other .
Motorcycles are cheap means of transport .
Fatal accidents are due to careless road users .
Chaos and violence is an indicator that there are misunderstandings among people .
Systems require reforms to improve .
Lockdown of cities is something that only happens at rare incidences .
My colleagues at work are planning to go on strike .
Landslides are common in mountainous areas .
History is still a reference today .
Age mates can easily get along quickly .
Be grateful for all you have in life whether big or small .
Regulations lead to proper growth .
The environment must be conserved .
The food at times requires supplements to taste better .
To avoid regrets ,  just always do what you love .
Opposition rallies should be legally enforced .
Fathers ought to often interact with their daughters while growing up .
White is a beautiful colour .
We are recruiting top-level professionals .
Every member of a team is important .
Home investments should be prefered .
The officials were fired over corruption allegations .
Some people in prisons are being tortured .
He was given thirty days to pay ten billion shillings to save his property .
I can't wait to see his wedding day .
Instead of fighting rebels ,  Sudan opted for peace talks .
The government gets five hundred billion shillings to construct three roads .
The wedding was cancelled after the bride and groom discovered that they were related .
The current heavy rains are causing floods which are destroying people's property .
Traffic officers stay in rain trying to direct cars in order to prevent traffic jam .
Kampala roads flood whenever it rains heavily .
Car accidents are common during rainy seasons .
The bride should be mindful of her wedding dress .
The lady got married at an old age .
The government is not issuing national identity cards due to coronavirus .
The government nowadays is trying to control what is said in the media .
All organisations make financial reports at the end of each year .
Entebbe airport will be opened in October .
I have just seen the best bridal dresses in Kampala at a certain shop .
After the heavy rains ,  the arcades in Kampala were flooded with water .
Where is Uganda headed with its citizens being mistreated ?
Who is the owner of the land where the church was demolished ?
This letter was written by my young daughter .
You need somewhere to keep your clothes .
Design your house the way you want it .
Here are the good things in using good quality construction materials .
The compound will look nice if well designed .
The president's lawyer has died at a very old age .
Teenagers are not interested in what I have to say but I have to talk to them .
Marriage pressure can cause some people to hire grooms and guests for weddings .
Working at home is going to change the way bosses perceive work .
Give people their money .
Even as work is ongoing ,  people are still celebrating .
Consider the situation of people in other areas .
I get sad at times by the things people do .
They should receive rewards for a higher ranking .
We are thankful for the meals provided to soldiers .
The patient was discharged from hospital last month .
Frontline health workers' salaries should be tripled .
A lady's claim will be clarified .
There is high traffic on the toll-free lines .
The president has appeared more than twenty times on television .
A team delivered a consignment at the Entebbe International Airport using the Ethiopian Airlines .
We need new information sources in order to keep up to date .
Floods have displaced several refugees .
Taxi operation in Kampala has been halted .
Taking over church land is not a good idea .
During the introduction ceremonies ,  it is important to have good songs .
With my new car ,  I can easily avoid all the traffic in Kampala .
The communications company should allow us to operate freely .
Which car brand do you prefer ?
The paint needs to dry first before you cover it .
Let us talk to him and get the truth of the matter .
Why is it so difficult to find true love ?
A long-distance relationship needs a faithful partner .
I wonder why she's more open to my friend than me .
My wife constantly looks at me in the morning .
My neighbour narrowly survived death last night .
Our company gives awards to the best performers annually .
He still maintains his word despite the allegations against him .
There are many land wrangles in Uganda .
It requires a good wedding planner to have a successful function .
She truly deserved the award for the best arts reporter in the country .
Try him ,  he is one of the good photographers we have around town .
I would be happy to provide much information as possible .
My neighbour's roof was damaged by the heavy rains .
The mayor's wife encouraged us to work hard for a better future .
Will our friendship be damaged if you don't get that job ?
My grandparents also benefited from government aid last year .
Are all employees at your workplace offered a special training course ?
The family of a man who died after jumping from the lorry are speechless .
Flooding caused the mine to collapse .
It is one of the newly created cities .
The solution to load shedding is building more dams .
I suggest you get rid of all gadgets when it's sleeping time .
It is unnecessary for one to dress excessively in order to look stylish
I enjoy being at work and checking to know how things are going .
It is with sorrow that we announce the death of our beloved father
Sir ,  this is the truth .
He worked hard for his wife's happiness .
What challenges did you face during the conference ?
Investigations are ongoing on the embezzlement of Coronavirus disease funds .
There are families in Uganda which have only one meal per day .
Youths and children need daily advice from their parents and guardians .
Dead bodies have been recovered after the heavy rainfall resulted in strong floods .
Any institute with proper accountability strategy is eligible for funding .
The government should lower the retirement age for its workers .
Fights between brothers and sisters are common these days .
Please make sure that the bride and groom arrive early at church this Saturday .
Investigations show that members of the legislature earn the biggest salary amongst public servants .
This the time Ugandans will decide who their leaders will be .
It's true that anyone can run unopposed in primaries .
In primaries ,  you expect to win or lose .
He is the longest-serving president of Uganda .
Many youths are joining political parties .
Performance is key for political aspirants
Losing an election should be expected of a prudent candidate .
Anyone is capable of winning an election .
Losing an election is a shame to some contestants .
Cheating in elections must come to an end .
Vote rigging should be condemned in the community .
Free and fair elections are the joy of all political candidates .
Violence during elections must stop .
Engaging in national politics takes time .
Violent free elections are possible .
Some election methods are not fair .
The incumbent shall lose if not careful .
Are public rallies necessary ?
It is okay for one to be politically independent .
Voters should be informed about elections to avoid chaos .
Village mobilisers are recruited ahead of time .
Do you know the roles for the member of parliament ?
Many youths have decided to join politics in Kampala .
You can not vote if you don't have the National Identity Card .
Every politician needs to be knowledgeable about their constituency .
Everyone can stand for a political office as long as they have the requirements .
Some politicians rigged elections to become members of parliament .
Hospitals lack resources to treat patients of coronavirus .
The ruling party strongly believes that they are going to win the upcoming elections .
During elections ,  candidates spend more money on people to try and get their votes .
People in Entebbe did not turn up for youth elections .
Politicians hire many village people to look for votes .
Politicians tell a lot of lies during campaigns .
Many secrets get revealed during campaigns .
Chaos erupted when the chairman of electoral commission announced two winners for the same position .
Shots were fired during the political party elections .
The least supported party in Ugandan also wants to participate in the upcoming elections .
The members of parliament also have to go for nominations .
The ruling party is ready to compete in the upcoming elections .
The president observed the chaos in the party elections .
Many of the current member of parliaments lost in their party elections .
Election malpractice is on the increase in that district .
The supporters protested over the women member of parliament results .
The mayoral seat elections have only the youth .
Mayor elections will be carried out tomorrow .
Elections have to always be free and fair .
A man is competing against his daughter in the general elections .
Voter bribery is not a good thing .
Election results are supposed to be announced as soon as possible .
It requires unity within the party to win an election .
It is fair to give new candidates a chance to represent their parties .
It has now become usual for politicians to conflict over positions .
In their region ,  the mayoral seat has attracted four aspirants .
We didn't vote because of failure to supply ballots at the polling station in our area .
Our city mayor collapsed after he lost to his opponent .
I didn't vote because my name did not appear on the voters' register .
You should enter politics to serve not to exploit .
l wonder why there is too much nepotism in the politics of our country .
He asked us to go to the polling place and act as his poll watchers .
After declaring her the winner ,  she threw a victory party right away .
There wasn't any kind of violence in elections at our home village .
One of the supporters was severely injured while jubilating his win .
A given section of Ugandans has violated the voting guidelines this year .
The contestants have not agreed with the results declared in the elections .
His popularity made him a successful politician in the country .
He retained the card for the party flag bearer for the upcoming general elections
Journalists have been urged to cover the coming elections without fear .
Small voter involvement in the district and mayoral polls is attributed to no campaigns .
Violence in elections can be caused by a number of unlawful acts .
The leaders have come together to develop their nations .
Political parties should evaluate themselves to improve .
That political party has lost its value .
Every politician is trying to gain support because of the upcoming elections .
We are in the last week of campaigns for presidential elections .
This election race is between the two prominent families in Kasubi .
The two opposition candidates are working on a coalition before the national elections .
A tight parliamentary race in the East is normally characterised with the violation of the law
Enrolment of unproven people into politics by the president will break the ruling party .
Former members of Cabinet are in the race to become members of parliament .
With a few resources ,  teachers continue delivering exciting and effective lessons .
As athletics fans ,  we are proud to have the fastest runner from our country .
I  salute to our nation !
This day is celebrated on October ninth of every year .
She is anxiously waiting for the release of the results .
The headteacher was awarded a token of appreciation .
After the announcement of her results ,  she collapsed .
The minister gives tokens of appreciation to the best teachers every year .
Poverty is one of the reasons that led to child marriage .
It is good to improve skills and promote the talents of the girl child .
Our teachers who put in more efforts in teaching learners were greatly rewarded .
Good luck to all candidates .
She handed in incomplete documents which led to the rejection of her loan application .
Uganda Cranes are warming up for a match with Burundi .
District officers are ready to provide free services to the needy .
Immunisation is important to prevent the killer diseases .
Early childhood centres should emphasize reading skills .
There is a new way of checking learners academic progress .
Ugandans are happy for the achievement of their football team .
The ministry should improve supervision to uplift the standard of public schools .
Parents have offered five water dispensers to boost hygiene in the school .
Officials have given opening remarks for a two days education conference .
Educational institutions should put more emphasis on practical education and skills .
The minister is determined to improve the education system .
Schools have been urged to put the new curriculum into practice .
The minister has awarded the best teachers in the country .
The Rugby Cranes are one of the best teams in the tournament .
City authorities urge schools to support children's talents .
Performing arts has been boosted in schools .
Namboole stadium is the Uganda cranes official home ground .
The rugby team has qualified for many international tournaments .
The government has established new classroom blocks to public schools in Kampala .
Schools have employed quality teachers to improve results .
Parents have agreed to support schools in nurturing the learners during holidays .
Nigeria lost four to one to Uganda in the African national championship .
Uganda football players are admired by international club players .
The football players have awarded the best players for the season .
Sexual violence affects both girls and boys in schools .
We are proud to have the fastest runner in our country .
He has won the race again .
Despite the  heavy rains ,  they continued with the running competition
Their team won the football championship .
Such people should be respected in the soccer world .
My daughter has been awarded a scholarship because of her very good performance .
The minister has allowed foreigners to invest in the education instructions of Uganda .
Is it true that she bribed student voters to vote for her ?
My daughter is contesting for the post of the head girl at her school .
I thank you for being part of us this year .
I come from the pearl of Africa
We should be cautious  before we get involved
Relevant states were represented by different personnel
The chief justice ensured the smooth running of the appointment
A leader was appointed
This is my responsibility as the President of Uganda
We should work hand in hand with member states to ensure economic development
East African states should be integrated with  clear goals and objective
We thank the schools which have joined the fight against the pandemic
The auditor general will inspect the products distributed to ensure its quality product
They are greedy and selfish people
Those who spent money wisely on our people should be commended
Let us work together to defeat this challenge with collective efforts .
Ugandans are very strong people
People have greed for money which will make them lose a life
Leaders should be responsible and enhance service provision
Quality food should be distributed in a proper way without contamination
We need to put in place proper mechanisms and food will be brought on the door
The money should be spent on our people and not greedy politicians
It is one of the few schools I went to in my high school days
That is where I came from
I was at Ntale one year before independence
They have been able to control this pandemic
The medical staff and engineers are important in our Ugandan setting
We bought it for road construction
The machinery imported from Japan helped us to handle the situation
They effortlessly sacrificed and put their lives at risk
The revolutionaries did a very fantastic job for the country
Let us wait and see what happens
This kind of behaviour is completely disallowed and unlawful
The district can  allocate funds accurately unlike these selfish individuals
The task force should work hand in hand with the police
The district task force should be in charge of distribution and resource allocation
The finances should be refunded
The money should never have been rebated
Let us not relax people we can fight off the coronavirus
The auditor general will  have to inspect the expenditures
We cannot tolerate improper  behaviour
They should be commended for being selfless
Their good work was reflected in these difficult times
They were saving lives
He appreciated their good work
He wanted to understand their problems
They do the work that no one can be able to do
They need to be motivated
Health workers have done a very good job
They are extensively living a good life
Politicians should never distribute food but should be part of the task force
They will be part of the task force since they know problems better
On orders from above ,  the district task force had to control the situation
We then tried to make sure things are done in the right way
The local politicians tried to engage in food distribution .
The district task force was in charge of handling the situation
The finances were for service provision
We had to release the money to do its cause
The money had to be spent rightly
There will be a friendly match between the two teams
Teachers should be highly appreciated for the efforts they put in to mentor us .
We thank our teachers for the creative ideas they bring up while helping us to learn .
More income should be invested in the education sector of our country .
She is the best teacher I have known since childhood .
On teachers day they were cautioned to love their students like their own .
All teachers in our school were awarded tokens for being innovative .
They were urged to encourage children to participate in classroom activities .
She participated in all the outdoor games .
She empowered girls and women to fight against the problem of gender inequality .
They proved to them that they can do anything boys can do .
He realized that there is value in hard work .
Is it right for a teacher to set high expectations for her students ?
He was the best teacher and we strongly relied on him .
Mathematics will help her develop logical and critical thinking .
The government equipped all schools with the materials to help learners pass their exams .
All candidate students are expected at school by end of next week .
Women nowadays are greatly participating in sports
All our children reported back to school as soon as the term began .
It's good to boost children's talents right from childhood .
She should remain calm all times even if the children have annoyed her .
Teachers in my school were encouraged to laugh with their students .
Does a midwife have to be a nurse ?
My mother received a short term school fees loan from that bank .
She is a great nurse and I am grateful for her .
There should be an improvement in health service delivery .
The results showed that girls dominated boys in the final exams .
They were encouraged to make timely repayments .
They should pay attention to the strength and limitations of each of the student .
Children learn well in a peaceful school environment .
Learners shouldn't be discriminated in schools according to their performance .
Is it right to force an underage girl into marriage ?
Violence can highly be reduced through curriculum-based activities .
Every child has a right to basic needs .
There should be no discrimination in schools among children .
All students ,  schools and parents have an important role in promoting school safety
They should find ways of meeting the learning needs of students .
Community is to also involve in child protection .
The coaches did a great job of preparing the team .
It needs commitment to fulfil a task .
Teachers inspire and encourage us to strive for greatness .
Ugandans are overjoyed with the victory of their fastest runners .
He gives more energy to the pupils .
Teachers help in preparing for the road ahead in our lives .
It is the teacher that makes the difference ,  not the classroom .
The minister said teachers sacrifices don't go unnoticed .
Our mathematics teacher inspired us to do better .
My teacher thank you for making me a good human being .
We are in an extremely difficult situation
It is the ruling party in Uganda
We shall employ the necessary people to strategize
It cannot sustain its activities in difficult times like wars
It mostly depends on foreigners
The tourism sector faces a number of challenges as they lack capital
Food runs the lives of people in every situation
Food security is key to a better economy
We had a better increase in income per capita
There is high milk production in Kenya
There is high consumption of milk products
The problem is about high production and low consumption
It is rich in a lot of minerals and it is part of proteins foods
They are needed by local manufacturing companies to sustain production
Eggs have no market this time around
Many other products are available on the market
Hotels were closed because of the pandemic
There is low agricultural output
There is a high demand for coffee
People are now protective of themselves
They are thinking about  us
We were able to meet at last
There are a lot of cars coming inside the country
We shall handle this situation and the number of health workers shall increase
Let us hope they agreed on priorities
What did they talk about ?
Uganda is working on a countrywide railway line to connect markets
They give us the market despite the transport problems
They provide us with timber
There are movements of people in and out of the neighbouring country .
Uganda will construct a railway line towards the Tanzanian border and Kenya respectively
People are now able to use various means of transport .
Sacrificing ourselves will not be necessary ,  we need better solutions .
We will stop after we have reached the final destination .
The ministry will provide us with the means of transport .
Diabetes is a dangerous disease with no cure .
They amended the constitution amidst controversial times .
He will park the car in a secure place .
Hotels and lodges are facing a difficult time during the pandemic .
I need to get a driving permit this year .
How often do you go to church ?
Prayer transforms people's way of life .
All believers ought to be generous .
To fight the coronavirus ,  you need to feed well and also pray to Jesus Christ .
I declare a wonderful ,  and prosperous today .
You need a blessing from God .
We need prayers in our daily lives .
Being faithful and trustworthy are should be every Christian core values .
Teargas and live bullets were used at demonstrators .
Tanks and heavy artilleries are used in the demonstrations .
Killing others is very intolerable .
Threats are rampant among people in the community .
Attempted murder is also considered a criminal case .
Police should manage increasing gun cases .
Theft is a great threat to the community .
Of late ,  many people die of gun shootings .
A man was shot three times in the stomach while on his way to work .
The president does not like the police to use guns in public .
Police have been heavily deployed to prevent riots and strikes from people .
Police should learn from these party primaries .
Uganda police will do reshuffles any time this year .
The gun which the robbers used was stolen from the prison warden .
Security operatives were arrested yesterday for killing a civilian .
Police have delayed releasing a report from investigations on the recent murder cases .
How many motorcycles will be distributed ?
It is not good to eat a lot of beef .
What are the challenges that hinder good hygiene ?
How do you overcome poor hygiene ?
Some business owners try to dodge paying taxes .
Good leadership impacts people's lives .
Why is good hygiene important ?
What diseases are caused by eating overstayed meat ?
The prices of beef are high because of the Christmas season .
Why are there few meat sellers in this town ?
People now prefer buying meat from the city abattoir to community butcheries .
There is a need to regulate the prices in the market .
The city abattoir will be opened tomorrow .
All women will be given cows as a way to boost family income .
Most butchers have their own customers to whom they sell their meat .
Who are the responsible citizens ?
How do I maintain good health ?
Pregnant mothers should be handled with care .
Babies bring honour to the family .
It was a painful moment when I was giving birth .
Where can I get immunised from yellow fever ?
How can I get my medical records from the hospital ?
Is it normal for feet to swell during pregnancy ?
Breastfeeding is good for both the baby and its mother .
Why is the dropout rate so high ?
There is another training today for those that missed out .
There is a low women representation in parliament .
How does domestic violence affect a woman ?
What challenges are faced by women today ?
It is unfortunate that even today women are being oppressed .
A girl child is as important as a boy child .
Most cultural practices tend to demote women's rights .
Men in the villages oppress their wives .
Why are women empowerment programs so important ?
Private schools are performing better than government schools .
We need women to take up leadership positions .
Many participants attended that concert .
Men should be involved in the fight for women's right ?
Do you have a business name ?
Those policies are aimed at protecting local businesses .
That policy is intended to eliminate competition .
We need to have clear policies for our business .
Landlords should make tenants sign an agreement .
We need to help coffee farmers in finding the right market .
Are there any health risks involved in tobacco growing>
Which business are you operating ?
Which businesses should we look at as good examples in Uganda ?
What kind of businesses operate in that community ?
Have you submitted your assignment ?
Some Ugandans do business in South Sudan .
Those solar panels are big .
What are some of the challenges that hospitals face ?
The received donations will help address the problems we face .
Power outage affects our business .
Our health services are the best in the region .
These solar panels can light up the entire hospital .
Women give birth in the maternity ward .
Certificates were given out on the handover ceremony .
Solar power is a prefered alternative .
What should I do when there is a power outage ?
Solar power provides all the necessary power needs .
Who are the victims of rape ?
Men who marry underaged girls should be sent to prison .
What are some of the causes of school dropouts ?
Some men do rape their wives .
We need to stop the habit of pushing young girls into marriage .
What are the effects of early marriages ?
Why are there increasing rape cases ?
Why is it important to have a sustainable income ?
Why do we celebrate women's day ?
Men should learn to work together with their wives .
What is the purpose of this investigation ?
Some of the refugees are good people .
Civilians are being recruited into the army .
Those security officials don't know the law .
What has the government done on the issue of fake doctors ?
What can you say about illegal businesses ?
Security guidelines are put in place to protect the citizens .
Rebels have kidnapped the girls .
We were captured by rebels .
How long do refugees stay in the refugee camps ?
Uganda has the biggest refugee group in the region .
How many cows are they giving out ?
What is the difference between the two candidates ?
Who are the vulnerable people in the community ?
Why should you speak on that matter ?
Why should you comment on that ?
You must be a hard working person .
We are issuing out fertilizers to the most active farmers .
We need exemplary leaders .
The opposition leader was against that bill .
This election is going to be very interesting .
How can the government increase the cattle population ?
Bad politicians always engage in illegal activities .
These leaders are selfish .
Every woman should find some non government organisation to work with .
Banana wastes are being used in the production of biogas .
There is an increase in the growing of bananas in western Uganda .
Vanilla is in high demand .
New species of bananas have been introduced to ensure continuous productivity .
People in urban areas can use small spaces for poultry farming .
The project will support banana growers to continue with banana production .
Farmers have improved on the quality of banana products on the market .
Commercial agriculture will increase Uganda's exports .
Every village should have a tractor that can be used by farmers .
Farmers have to be supported to address existing challenges .
Youth and women have generated income from banana growing .
There is increased demand for local products on the international market .
It involves analysing cash inflow and outflow .
The number of palm oil growers is increasing in the country .
The challenges faced by oil palm growers will be addressed .
People have to engage in economic activities to acquire income .
People will be given land and seeds to increase palm oil growing .
The local processors will provide a market for the palm oil farmers .
People got an income-generating opportunity which has improved their social life .
Improvement of people's lives should be a priority for this new program .
What is happening in Uganda ?
The ministry will distribute palm oil seeds to the farmers .
The government will increase funds for palm oil production .
Palm oil growing has been encouraged locally .
The minister showed the president the progress in the Agricultural sector .
Every farmer should rear animals in addition to growing crops .
All local council chairpersons need to at least have a bicycle .
Extension workers need new vehicles and motorcycles .
Farmers need help to reach certain markets .
It can preserve the milk for a long time .
It is reliable and can assess the quality of all milk products .
It is efficient and gives instant feedback .
What nutrients are found in the milk ?
There is a device which analyzes the quality level of milk .
Every government school should have a laboratory .
Every farmer can be able to test their own milk for marketing purposes .
Farmers will be able to preserve milk and prevent contamination .
Farmers were able to learn how to produce quality milk and how to preserve it .
It will help farmers with milk products to access the international market .
The dairy farmers will now have access to mobile laboratories .
The laboratory will test the quality levels of milk .
Agriculture has developed with the introduction of new equipment and dairy processors .
The Dairy development authority has spearheaded milk production ,  processing and supply .
One of the government's priority is to provide agricultural equipment to the farmers .
More and more farmers will acquire better and improved services throughout the country .
Farmers were equipped with relevant knowledge to conduct activities in a profitable manner .
Farmers in Lira were trained to manage and control crop pests and diseases .
Farmers need better roads to transport their goods to the markets .
Farmers need to target both local and international markets .
Farmers acquired knowledge about good and bad soils .
The people of Northern Uganda have increased their participation in Agriculture .
The factory has enhanced agricultural productivity by providing farmers with fertilisers .
Natural fertilizers are better than artificial fertilizers .
Farmers have to improve soil fertility in order to have a better harvest .
Improved seed varieties increase good quality output and guarantee better agricultural exports .
It's important for every farmer to understand market prices .
Uganda's weather is very good for agriculture .
Ugandans need improved seed varieties for better output .
The project should benefit the people in the local community .
We need to assess every team member .
Isingiro District is improving its agricultural markets .
Farmer groups should be introduced in every district .
Some things can never be taught at school .
All pupils should do an oral and written exam .
They should be organised into groups .
We need organizations that want to help Ugandans without torturing them .
The government of Uganda is working on a new education policy .
There is a lot of poverty in rural areas
Communication skills should be part of the education curriculum .
Many Ugandans know how to speak English .
We need to work on deadlines .
Ugandans should gain computer knowledge .
You need to have a clear goal before you set up a project .
Most hotels in Uganda have good managers .
There will be the supervision of the project activities .
We need to identify the key stakeholders .
The project will follow specific government procedures in its establishment .
The role of the specialist will be to draft the technical guidelines .
We need to recruit experts to coordinate the project activities
We need better ways to transport our goods to the market .
The project emphasizes the quality of agricultural output and the need to address challenges .
People will acquire income by engaging in agribusiness and management .
The project aims at improving the income levels of people through improving agricultural production .
The project will bring partners on board to discuss value addition strategies .
We have received funds to support agriculture projects .
The system was established by the ministry of health .
The system provides accurate information and insights into what might happen .
The leaders were educated on how to use the new system .
The Ministry involved stakeholders to discuss the way forward for agriculture .
Data collected looks at how farmers conduct activities .
The system will help the planners to execute and supervise activities .
Few districts will benefit at first then the project will go nationwide .
The system has helped to increase production in the industry .
Farmers are planting improved seed varieties .
Farmers are producing quality grain output .
Different people are into athletics these days .
Uganda's athletics are winning a lot of medals .
Uganda's athletics are performing well these days .
Scoring more than a hundred goals for the national team is a great achievement .
Uganda's sports sector is facing a lot of problems .
He won his first gold medal during the athletic games .
Express football club promises to perform well .
Namboole Stadium has a management team for sporting events .
He left his home village at a tender age to play football in the city .
He is the fastest runner in the whole country .
This is necessary for a team to score a goal .
Express fans should think about respecting the club's players one of these days .
Manchester United fans in Uganda are hiding because they lost to Tottenham .
Strikers are important in winning a football game .
A few of these sportsmen are able to display exceptional football skills
You are welcome to enrol at our university .
Court orders have effects on investors .
He was asked many questions during cross-examination by the lawyers .
We have the liberty to worship God .
What you need to know when putting up the kitchen .
Everyone talks about sports .
Those two buildings look alike .
Commonwealth conferences are to be held in Uganda .
How should we pray ?
Why did the coach substitute that player ?
The president appoints young leaders .
Politicians from the north have been more influential than ever .
Women empowerment programs are put in place
Students danced and sang for our guests .
To be a Christian leader you must study theology .
Parliament sits only two days in the week .
That style of dancing has become famous lately .
The speaker has addressed all the delegates from other countries .
This disease has affected all the people in our community .
Delegates from other countries are always welcome .
Actors and artists are now pursuing politics .
There is a lot of traffic on the road .
News updates are starting at any time .
Soldiers can also participate in sports .
I need to learn how to bake cakes and bread .
To resolve this conflict both leaders have to meet .
There is a lot of land grabbing in your area .
Have you watched that movie before ?
Smugglers always put their lives on the line .
The wedding is live on television .
Entebbe is the only international airport in Uganda .
Is that interview live ?
Leaders are responsible for maintaining peace in their communities .
Ugandans like travelling a lot .
Has the game started ?
Who was Uganda's first president ?
Very many television and radio stations have come up in Kampala
Every year we participate in the marathon .
Can you believe that elections are next month ?
We can fight against cancer by creating public awareness .
Accidents are common on that highway road .
Physical activities are good for our health .
The analysis shows that young leaders are most likely to win the elections .
How do you support women ?
Violence against humanity is bad
Fundraising is one way to get money .
The Internet is the source of knowledge lately .
Most taxi drivers are indisciplined .
Product prices are always low on Black Friday .
People buy more on Black Friday .
Black Friday is normally in November .
Ugandans are great people .
Children are a blessing from God .
Cancer of the cervix is a deadly disease .
We can enjoy and play the way we want .
Let us keep the togetherness at all costs .
People are already excited about today .
This is real fun ,  make sure you are part of it .
Let us go to a place where our children will be happy
The new developments are convenient and user friendly
Ugandans appreciate the efficiency and developments taking place
The youth should be sensitized and educated about what is best for their lives
Cryptocurrency has no rules governing it
Ugandan airlines has been re-established
The lawbreakers have been taken to the courts of law
The challenges faced by people need immediate solutions .
Some rich men act arrogantly .
My wife needs to work hard and establish other sources of income
The historicals will be remembered for their contributions towards the country .
Everything is now going to be fine
People are on their way to celebrate and enjoy the festive season
People should resort to bodabodas as the alternative system of transport
The Professor will execute his duties and responsibilities systematically
We need to reach Masaka very fast
Some designers have created new stylish Muslim attires .
Mikel Arteta was recruited to win the football league .
People should fulfil their family obligations .
People are going to the villages to spend the festive season
Uganda is in the Sub Saharan part of Africa .
Birds are enjoying themselves in the air
We have to move cautiously until everything has settled .
Peace and stability are important in every country .
Politically inspired demonstrations are dangerous .
We give the latest information about different activities .
Efforts are taking place to combat the ebola virus outbreak
Sensitization programs for pregnant mothers should be revised .
We should ensure proper sanitation to avoid diseases .
Cholera has broken out in Kampala because of poor hygiene .
The ministry of health wants to improve the quality of oxygen in referral hospitals
Partnerships with other countries were established to increase health supplies
The efforts to eradicate malaria are underway headed by the Minister of Health
The need for better livelihood leads to the creation of better policies for homeless people .
Children should be educated on how to avoid HIV and stay healthy .
People were educated and they understood the importance of screening and testing .
Collective efforts are in place to defeat one of the most dangerous diseases .
Girls should be vaccinated for cervical cancer .
We should spray all mosquito habitats near our homes .
People should work together and combat diseases .
Our workers should go and enjoy themselves on this special day .
Uganda will have access to better drugs in the future .
We need to make sure there are no mosquito-infested areas near our homes .
Medical facilities are being improved to the standard .
Leaders will be educated about several ways to combat different infections
The new medical facility has reached the final stages
The different stakeholders met to discuss medical challenges in villages .
A personal assessment will be carried out for records and archives purposes .
Malaria has become an extremely dangerous disease
How can we help people who have hearing problems ?
Ugandans are still safe from the ebola virus outbreak
We should embark on informing people and encouraging them to vaccinate
Let us go for check-ups
Women will have access to free medical services which will improve their lives
The full dose for tuberculosis is taken for a long period of time
Women have to be empowered to access and carry out different activities
New health facilities have been established to improve medical services
The commissioner has served the people of Uganda very well
Let us applaud his contribution to the country
General cleanliness is a basic requirement in every home .
The cancer institute has done a very wonderful job .
Health workers will be given the support they need to find solutions for existing challenges .
New facilities will be established to assist in fighting specific medical problems .
Medicine will be manufactured locally which will ease accessibility .
The medical and the newspaper team are running health adverts this week .
People are being provided with knowledge about the disease
The medical body seeks to understand how citizens manage amidst having the disease .
Citizens will be engaged to create a solution for disease control .
This kind of disease will be eradicated soon .
Various efforts are being done to ensure improved medical statuses through sensitization .
Our pharmacists will inform the public about how hardened some diseases are to drugs .
This disease affects mostly women in different ways .
The facility established will mostly work on surgical operations .
Our medics are working hand in hand with centres for disease control .
This type of cancer affects mostly women who have intercourse with multiple partners .
This disease has a number of complications .
Malaria takes lives and affects pregnant women .
Have a joyful Saturday and Sunday .
Various prevention measures have been put in place .
The health summit will enforce strategies in order to tackle health challenges
The ministry will do countrywide sensitization on Ebola prevention
The ministry informed people about the importance of exercising
The dangers of this disease will be assessed and remedies will be provided .
People affected by ebola will be given continuous support .
Hepatitis can be prevented if one takes the three vaccines
Uganda is safe and has no Ebola cases
The minister calls upon people not to believe in false information running on social media
We shall not rest  until people are free from malaria
People in Africa are not bothered about the dangers associated with hepatitis
Ugandans should be careful because new cases have been found in Congo
It is a very dangerous disease with dangerous symptoms
Parents should be educated on how to protect the girl child .
Ugandans should not be worried .
People have acquired knowledge on how to protect themselves from this disease .
The ministry wishes Ugandans a happy Easter holiday
Malaria is one of the killer diseases .
Meetings provide a platform for planning ahead .
The public needs to be educated about hepatitis .
It is possible to completely deal away with certain diseases .
Health workers should be appreciated .
Motorcycles could be of great importance to the health sector .
Leaders should do inspections for follow up purposes .
What is the need for a scan in a hospital ?
Nurses and midwives save lives .
Fasting and prayer are part of the lifestyle of a good religious person .
Media creates awareness to the public .
Hospitals should improve child health .
Nurses and midwives are now also recognised in the health sector .
Institutes have now been accepted to train nurses .
Is it easy to cross from one country to another ?
Health workers need regular health-related trainings .
Protection measures should be taken to prevent diseases .
What do you know about the Ebola disease ?
Quality work derives satisfaction .
Responsible leaders need to be awarded .
Health service delivery is being improved .
Do the needful to prevent diabetes .
Health matters should be given priority .
Ambulances carry patients to the hospital .
Leaders need to fight against corruption .
Some insects transmit diseases .
How much do you know about hepatitis ?
The dead are often remembered .
What is food poisoning ?
Accountability is a requisition for government organisations .
Hospitals need sufficient equipment for efficient performance .
Tobacco is very dangerous to our health .
Nation resources are rightfully accessed by nationals .
The future of the girl child is vital to the nation .
Exhibitions at times avail free services for the public .
Everyone should respect each other's religion and norms .
Men ought to take full responsibility for their families .
Seek out for information regarding health matters .
People love free services .
Are all diseases immunizable ?
Join the effort to widen awareness of viral diseases .
Is tobacco really that dangerous ?
Soldiers and health workers need to be recognised for their tireless effort .
Media information is a better trusted source .
Viral infections exist among us .
How can a nation-best prepare itself against diseases ?
Information is very important .
Infected patients need to be isolated to avoid contacts with the uninfected .
Ebola is a killer disease .
The dead should be buried safely .
Do government organisations also need donations ?
Every disease has signs and symptoms that indicate its presence in one's body .
Washing hands with soap is one way of preventing diseases .
If not vaccinated against ,  chances are ,  one can easily be infected with the disease .
Avoid information from untrusted sources like rumours .
The youths in school should be acknowledged about their health-related issues .
Ebola vaccines are available to the community .
Great effort deserves recognition and appreciation .
Some diseases can be cured and prevented .
Couples are now advised to test for sickle cells disease before getting married .
Disease outbreaks can be mitigated through community engagement .
It is possible for one to be healthy and disease-free .
Ones' health status is his or her responsibility .
Vaccination helps prevent diseases .
Leaders should take effort in fighting against non-communicable diseases .
Media is a trusted source of information .
Community engagement is very crucial in fighting against some diseases .
Every hospital must have had an ambulance .
Community engagement in health matters should be advocated for .
What is the purpose of health insurance ?
We should all join the effort in fighting non-communicable diseases .
Non-communicable diseases exist among people in the community .
A laboratory is a place where experiments are made .
Water is of great importance in our day to day life .
Media is one of the channels for creating awareness to the public .
Medical treatments lower the risk of the disease spread .
Personal hygiene is one of the ways to avoid the spread of diseases .
Technological advancement has been of great benefit to in the medical sector .
Viral diseases are a risk to the community .
Sports activities are best done in sportswear .
Kids love to play games .
Does aerobics really help one to keep fit ?
Everyone is responsible for their healthy wellbeing .
The public has a right to participate in national activities .
Every nation has at least a day to celebrate .
Companies are fond of corporate social responsibility .
Patients need confirmation from doctors on what kind of disease they are suffering from .
Hospitals are very important facilities in the community .
Unhygienic behaviours can often result in disease spread .
Not all rumours are true .
Contact with a recovered Ebola patient puts you at risk of contracting the disease .
Ebola is a viral disease that can easily spread .
Prevention is usually better than cure .
Every disease has its own signs and symptoms .
National leaders are responsible for the healthy wellbeing of fellow nationals .
Educate communities about the existing diseases .
Cholera can spread very fast in the community .
It is wise to protect yourself against disease while it's still early .
Many Ugandans would be so disciplined if coronavirus was like Ebola .
Uganda is always on high alert when it comes to diseases like Ebola .
There will be a mass vaccination campaign in Uganda .
Male partners can attend antenatal care as a way to support pregnant mothers .
There is no political or religious affiliation when it comes to health .
Buganda kingdom is being praised for its participation in raising awareness against sickle cells
Parliament officials have been denied access to the International Specialized Hospital .
We need to create a conducive environment for feeding mothers at parliament .
Staff recruitment was strictly by merit and given to those who passed interviews .
Wishing all Muslims a happy Eid
Medical interns are being admitted to the internship training program
Women and young adults are advised to take on family planning methods .
A memorandum has been signed to promote cooperation in Health .
There will be training on how to do health sensitization using social media .
Ugandan men play an important role in reproductive decisions .
An Executive director has been congratulated upon securing the leadership role .
Menstrual hygiene is essential for girls to be able to participate in schools .
There is another senior leadership retreat in the health sector .
There is need to expand the emergency unit because of the increasing number of patients .
Upgrading the health centre will mitigate congestion in general hospitals
Challenges faced in the quality of service delivery to pregnant mothers is being investigated .
Abstracts are needed for the national Health promotion conference .
A plan for health security has been launched in Uganda .
Uganda received a thermoscanner that will be positioned at the airport .
Kawempe hospital is being discussed on a radio program
Ugandans are urged to join the blood donation cause .
A donation plan has been launched with Rotarian malaria partners .
A jigger treatment lotion will be made by the Saraya company .
More specialists are being trained to reduce both referrals abroad and mortality rates .
Sanitary towels are being made out of sugarcane residues in Uganda .
Discussions are ongoing on how to implement solutions against disease outbreaks .
lessons learnt are being revised to improve Ebola preparedness .
Uganda has an Ebola case confirmed in Kasese district
Vomiting and bleeding from openings are some of the signs of Ebola .
The new board of directors for Soroti referral hospital have been inaugurated .
A female from Congo that was confirmed to have Ebola virus has passed on .
A professor has been congratulated on winning the health award
Health workers have been named heroes for subjecting individuals to handwashing and screening .
Poor communication between men and women could lead to failed family planning methods .
A booster dose of oral Polio vaccine will be given to all children under five .
Interventions have been put in place to address the outbreak of cholera .
The Health Ministry continues to advocate for a malaria-free country .
There is an improvement in the transportation of blood samples .
A company is being appreciated for its contribution towards improving maternity services for females .
Submit your abstract for the national health Promotion conference .
Abstinence should be practised to delay the first pregnancy
The Household head has a role in disease prevention
The country is preparing for a Measles-Rubella free community
Activities to ensure a healthy population are being advised by the Ministry of Health
Discussions on Ebola ,  human immunodeficiency virus and Malaria are underway .
There is a growth of Palliative care and access to controlled medicines in Uganda .
People in the Northern region need free health services like family planning and HIV testing .
The United Nations General Assembly continues to do its work in Uganda .
Play your part to fight Non-Communicable Diseases
A roadmap to Universal Health Coverage has been developed
The nationwide health sensitization program will be launched
A new maternity centre will be built in a district in Uganda
Government has decided to support farmers in the northern part of Uganda .
When is Uganda's independence ?
Refugees should be allowed to come into the country .
People in Uganda are now forging national identity cards .
A well-built septic tank shouldn't be a threat to anyone .
There is a rise in theft and killings in the rural parts of the country .
The widow takes half of the deceased's property .
A person can go to exile either by force or willingly .
Creating jobs for Ugandans by building factories is good for Uganda .
The government tries to intervene when media companies publish false news .
Protecting human rights has many benefits .
It is very hard to survive a highway car accident
With this new machinery ,  road construction will become easier .
Members of parliament are always requesting for money .
Members of Parliament can decide either to support or not to support the motion .
The government wants to construct a big hospital where students can also study .
In Uganda ,  nobody is above the law .
Having swimming pools at home is dangerous .
The matter is still in court .
The government is looking for other ways to get taxes .
Parents are advised to protect their children from strangers .
The royal family is involved in some land wrangles .
Ugandan laws are usually not put into action .
It is good to read newspapers on a daily basis .
During the lockdown ,  it was hard for people to travel back to Uganda .
Nowadays married women like spending time with rich men instead of their husbands .
Many girls are taken to Arab nations illegally .
A soldier's life is different from a civilian's life .
Uganda's security has improved due to the installation of cameras .
There is illegal selling of body parts in government hospitals .
In order to be safe ,  you should never stay on mountain slopes .
There is a relationship between Uganda and Israel .
Every year the government gives a huge sum of money to political parties .
Government has been in land wrangles for a long time .
I still have faith in Uganda's court system .
The youth were encouraged to work hard in order to earn a living .
You need to hand over power to another person .
The sanitation in Makerere university is lacking lately .
Most people buy newspapers after reading some interesting headlines .
The government should strengthen the police force in order to reduce crime .
When you get old ,  you are expected to retire .
if you are innocent ,  the police are obligated to release you .
A new political party has been formed in Uganda with new colours and symbols .
We need to celebrate this day .
Borders are going to be closed .
Disagreements can always be solved .
Youths are now forming criminal gangs to torture civilians .
People committing crimes are increasing each year .
There are still loopholes in the registration of sim cards .
Let us wait for the judge's ruling .
People with HIV are reminded to pick their medicine on time .
The role of the police is to keep law and order .
Many people have been hurt by the police while it enforces law and order .
By attending bride and groom events you get exposed to new things .
Newspapers can be bought anywhere and their prices are low .
Heavy rains destroyed people's property .
Good builders need good quality construction materials to build a good house .
Various people have different opinions concerning relationships .
When is the next football match ?
There is more stability in Uganda than in other countries .
the Uganda Martyrs that were killed were not only from the Buganda region
Uganda is the least developed country in East Africa .
Because of poverty ,  parents are no longer providing the best for their children .
Landlords in Kampala are to start paying taxes for their houses .
Doctors in private hospitals get better salaries than those in government hospitals .
Government has decided to increase the salaries of teachers .
Uganda Martyrs day is highly celebrated in Uganda .
Cutting down trees on a large scale is very dangerous .
I can't buy newspapers .
The former prime minister will be buried today .
The deceased's relatives can decide where to bury their loved one .
Murders are on the increase in the neighbourhood
The government is going to start checking the quality of food sold to people .
Wishing someone a good holiday just shows you care .
Due to the coronavirus ,  all worshipping places were closed
Uganda has a lot of nice places for tourists .
Religious leaders are having a misunderstanding .
Heavy rains can lead to the collapse of poorly constructed bridges .
The government is trying to keep the city centre clean .
Marriage has it is good and bad .
Women and girls need protection from the government .
You build your house in a swamp or forest at your own risk .
There is a lot of talk about the presidential address .
Ugandan companies also want to get huge construction projects from the government .
Kampala should not have street children around the city centre begging for money .
To get the latest updates around Uganda you have to listen to the radio .
The construction of a dam on Murchison Falls has been put on hold .
Uganda gets more money from foreign organisations than from its taxes .
The public should be aware of another Ebola outbreak .
Without a king ,  the kingdom can never be stable .
Government has decided to register all people with personal guns .
To get the latest updates around Kampala you have to read newspapers .
The border was closed due to misunderstandings between the two countries .
The government wants to reduce congestion in the city centre .
Most people do not go for medical checkups not until its late .
They use a new vehicle for kidnapping .
Serving in the supreme court requires a lot of experience .
Best teachers to be announced this week .
Top taxpayers in the country have been named .
Police have been investigating this murder for some time .
Money given to people by politicians should instead be used to improve community services .
Student loans are available now .
Due to poor ruling ,  the magistrate was shot and this caused panic .
The suspects have been granted bail
A new drug is expected to be on market soon .
You should consider using grass for your home compound .
The rise of African leaders to power .
This new drug really works well .
The court is questioning the council over its recent actions .
Why young people engage in corruption ?
People no longer mind about others but prioritise selfish interests .
Trade between these countries is being promoted by their leaders .
Leaders encourage youths to start small businesses .
This place is associated with a lot of murder .
Students can do a masters in any course of their choice .
Leaders are bringing change in their districts .
The army is patrolling every night .
Mobile money agents are involved in recent crimes .
What is the security situation in your area ?
Farmers are expected to get high profits from their sales .
Murder suspects are to appear before the court today .
Leaders are setting up programs to help their communities .
Be updated with the latest news .
Whose properties are those ?
Is it normal for businessmen to get loans from the bank ?
Reckless driving leads to many accidents .
Pupils in rural areas are studying under trees .
Legal experts interpret the laws to the public .
Schools are expected to open next month .
Who are the most famous murderers ?
Interest rates have been lowered for the people .
Uganda is producing more electricity than ever .
Marriages are intended for grown-ups .
Players have to sign contracts with their clubs
The World Health Organisation has released a report about children .
A businessman has given some of the properties to his son .
Receive free Hepatitis vaccine at Kololo .
A speech on the status of the Health Sector .
The status of the health sector will be discussed live on television .
A doctor will give an insight into the health sector on television .
Specialist clinicians have been advised to train interns .
A Ugandan has won the prestigious news award .
Uganda is conducting a nationwide Measles-Rubella Campaign .
A new medical kit has been launched in Uganda
Supervisors are being trained for the Measles-Rubella campaign
Severe birth defects can arise from pregnant women getting Rubella
A campaign to end Malaria
Let us congratulate Ugandans representing the country at the start of the Independence week .
The Measles-Rubella vaccine is administered by injection
The ministry has warned malicious individuals against creating misleading posts on immunization .
There are no fees charged for individuals planning to work for the government .
Celebrating Uganda's Independence
Uganda has contributed money to help fight three major health epidemics
Enough time will be given to people in a private space to help prevent suicide .
Parents are advised to take children for immunization .
Conclusion of the first day of the Measles-Rubella and Polio immunization campaign .
Parents are against the Measles and Polio Campaign
A minister's child has been immunised against Measles-Rubella
Children in schools  have been vaccinated against Measles-Rubella and Polio
Discussion on what Rubella is and how it can be transmitted
Congratulations to the health workers
Measles vaccines should be provided without fail .
Extension of the Measles-Rubella immunization campaign .
Cross border collaboration is to be discussed on Ebola virus disease .
All children under fifteen years are supposed to receive Measles and Polio vaccines
Parliament should put health issues first above anything else .
Polio is quite common in children under the age of five .
School children should be vaccinated against Polio and Measles .
I am grateful for the ongoing support from the ministry of health to Ugandans .
Accident and emergency units are being equipped .
It's two days to the 1st National Health Promotion and Disease Conference .
There is a need for innovation around testing kits for various diseases .
Support from the technical and financial team is appreciated by the Ministry of Health .
A quick emergency response demonstration will be conducted at Kololo Independence Grounds .
Pneumonia can be caused by viruses ,  bacteria and fungi .
The Medical implementation plan has been launched .
A tool kit to improve the quality of Tuberculosis care has been launched .
Recently land grabbing has become very common in society .
The tour was concluded by the honourable minister .
The project is focusing on suppliers in different parts of the country .
There is an increase in the production of foods rich in vitamins .
There will be a two-day discussion about the pest outbreak .
Various issues were addressed by the speaker during the meeting .
This is the only way of reaching out to farmers in those areas .
Different means of communication are used to educate farmers about pest outbreaks .
There is an outbreak of maize destroying pest in that district .
Fake insecticides are flooding the market these days .
Experts are searching for the best ways of stopping the spread of the disease .
Diseases in animals can also be controlled by vaccination .
Rural farmers have not adopted irrigation during dry seasons .
Watering supports crops to grow during the dry season .
There is no electricity in my home area .
Farm schools have been set up to support the agricultural sector .
Water tank dealers are enjoying the market across the country .
Government has constructed boreholes to reduce the water problem .
The organization has given us disease-resistant cassava stems .
Not every pesticide should be used to spray ticks .
All farmers should spray their cattle to fight off ticks .
Health officers warn meat sellers about the poor hygiene of butcheries .
Veterinary officers have supported animal keepers across the nation .
Many people in rural areas grow food for home consumption .
They have engaged farmers to help them learn when to carry out spraying .
Coffee is one of the major cash crops in Uganda .
District governments need to agree on what's best for their communities
Civil servants often ask for salary increments
Salary increments often spark off a debate among members of the public
Lecturers have put down their tools until their salary is increased .
The government should increase the salary of local councillors
Lack of consensus among council members affects the members of the community
Councillors need to agree on social policy for their communities
The government should increase the money allocated for district budgets
Women are not equally represented in leadership positions
Allowances of District councillors should be raised to improve service delivery
Councillors are looked at as low-income civil servants
District officials should pass economic policies that are beneficial to their communities
There are reports of high rates of corruption in district governments
Road safety campaigns are aimed at reducing road accidents
Road signs and symbols also help in reducing road accidents
The high number of accidents are a result of bad driving
Zebra crossings are helpful to primary pupils for safe road crossing
Always have a driving permit whenever you're driving
Bodaboda operators can be helpful in road safety campaigns since they are mobile
Pedestrians should be sensitized on road safety guidelines to reduce accidents
Bodaboda riders through their association can get loans for capital
Zebra crossings should regularly be painted after a while to better visibility
Bodaboda riders should work closely with traffic authorities to reduce road accidents
More road safety sensitization is a need in rural areas as it's done in urban communities
Private bodaboda owners should also adhere to the road safety guidelines
Road safety drives can also include community cleaning activities and sanitation awareness
We should buy locally made products to help build our local economy
Construction of the state of the art stadiums will help boost sports activities
Children in refugee camps should get an education like normal citizens
The government should award contracts to local manufacturers to create more local jobs
The good road network makes the delivery of support to refugees easier
Many refugees suffer from malnutrition due to lack of a balanced diet
Self-diagnosis kits help in early disease detection in rural communities
The war in South Sudan has led to a refugee influx in Uganda
International Organizations often come out to donate food to refugees
The government should follow up on education for children refugees
Refugee children should be trained in carpentry and welding to earn a living
Schools should adopt online learning during this pandemic
Refugee children also deserve an education so they can take care of their families
The government should allocate more money to refugee budgets
Vocational skills are an important form of education for refugees
Money allocated for disaster relief should not be swindled as this affects the country
Quality assurance inspections ensure students are getting the best education services
Teacher accommodation facilitation ensures teachers never run late for classes
We all need to welcome refugees in our country .
Refugee agricultural projects ensure that these communities can now feed themselves
Refugee communities should engage with host communities to build social relationships
The health sector is staff deficient creating a large doctor to patient ratio
Doctors need free accommodation as an incentive
Surgeons are very rare in hospitals hence creating a huge demand
Regular inspection of newly constructed roads is needed for quality assurance
The government should reduce borrowing and use local revenue
The general public has distrust in law enforcement institutes
Poaching harms the tourism industry as species keep reducing
Mob violence should strongly be condemned as an innocent life may be lost
Business people are often assassinated due to business wrangles
Being a Ugandan businessman attracts enemies
Hotels should step up their security to protect their guests
Assassins in Uganda obtain guns illegally and use Bodabodas
Mob violence has resulted in the deaths of innocent people
The law states that someone is innocent until proven guilty
Gangs often obtain guns illegally from security guards
Some guns obtained illegally come from cattle rustlers in Karamoja region
Community policing is important in reducing crime
People shouldn't engage in mob violence but call the police to take charge
Always move with your National Identity card for easy identification
Police investigations usually take long hence leaving us with no answers
Land wrangles have often resulted in deaths and evictions
Tribalism can often lead to war if it is not brought under control
Authorities should solve land wrangles to prevent violence
A land title helps one prove that they own the land they have
Clear boundaries should be demarcated to prevent land encroachment
Cultural leaders should sensitize their communities to take part in commercial Agriculture
People need to be sensitized on land rights to avoid land violence
Cultural leaders should preach peace and harmony in their communities
Land wrangles result in division among family members
Cultural leaders shouldn't promote division in their communities
The Ugandan judiciary has been accused of massive corruption
Cultural leaders need to come to a consensus to prevent tribal wars
Tribal disputes should be solved with dialogue instead of violence
There is mismanagement of funds in district financial committees
Many local council officials have been sighted as being involved in corruption scandals
The government should tighten its grip on corruption in districts
Regular audits should be done at the district level to curb corruption
Local council members found guilty of corruption should serve jail time
Sports funds are often mismanaged hence affecting the sector
There are allegations of fraud in the district procurement department
Top district officials need to provide financial accountability to their communities
District funds can be diverted to economic projects aimed at poverty eradication
Assets of corrupt officials should be frozen when proven guilty
Some government officials are falsely accused of corruption hence tarnishing their image
Lack of evidence is common in corruption cases since corrupt officials cover their tracks
Most corruption cases get thrown out of court due to lack of evidence
Organizations should use financial technologies in the fight against corruption
Witch-hunting is common in public office which can result in false allegations
National Forestry Authority is often accused of mismanagement of forests
The officials told him what he was supposed to do .
The officials did not trust him .
There was no enough evidence to convict the suspect .
He was popular among the people .
There is massive deforestation in the area .
People in Adjumani have acquired skills to engage in business .
The government has provided employment opportunities for the people .
The district will coordinate all project activities .
The project aims at improving the welfare of the youth .
Refugees have not engaged in business activities .
The people are not consistent with their skills in businesses .
The project opportunities should be distributed evenly among all people .
Opportunities should be given only to those people who are interested in them .
Refugees will also get an opportunity to participate in the project .
People have been arrested for breaking the laws .
The army has ensured that the environment is protected and conserved .
People need to get alternative sources of fuel .
The lawbreakers are under police custody .
All people who were encroaching on forests are under arrest .
They have been charged against breaking the forest law .
The police confiscated the machinery used in cutting trees .
The government issued guidelines on how forestry activities should be carried out .
The government has taken the initiative to protect the different tree species .
Adjumani district officials interdicted charcoal trade in a move to protect forests .
The people of Adjumani need a stable water supply .
People take hours to get water for home use .
People need water extension services .
People are many on water points which limits the quantity they can fetch .
The district should establish new boreholes in the area .
The water is not fit for domestic use .
The refugees lack water for domestic use .
People use small amounts of water to sustain their lives .
The district is planning to establish new sources of water for the people .
The leaders should lobby funds from the Ministry of water to aid the cause .
The district officials are doing everything to control the situation .
The district officials have to simplify water accessibility for the people .
The Prime minister orchestrated the establishment of a new borehole .
The district will relocate refugees to areas with adequate water supply .
People in Moyo have acquired skills and business knowledge .
The people will be able to start up and engage in business .
The skills acquired will enable people to get money .
People have acquired capital to help them engage in business activities .
People will have job security and the capacity to take care of their families .
People will get the income and improve their standards of living .
The district will continue supporting people's activities to improve their welfare .
The people were sensitized to work hard and manage their businesses well .
The districts have poor health care services .
The district officials have to be commended for controlling tuberculosis .
The officials did a very wonderful job .
The district was able to control and eradicate the disease ,  unlike other districts .
Adjumani has better and skilled health care practitioners .
The districts need skilled and capable health workers to control tuberculosis .
Health workers lack protective gears and materials when treating patients .
Health workers have limited knowledge about tuberculosis .
The ministry needs to provide health care services in every community .
The district needs to encourage more medical check-ups in the area .
People do not trust the coronavirus results from the task force .
People believe some of the results have been made up by the district .
Some district officials tested positive to the coronavirus pandemic .
The ministry showed its weakness when positive cases tested negative in other areas .
Some people are negative ,  and then they are marked positive .
The elections results from Arua district have lots of questions .
The district does not follow up on the positive cases within the district .
People are doubtful of the positive tests released by the district .
The district does not provide any help to the positive cases at the district .
Some of the election results at the district are wrong .
The district task force should follow established rules and regulations .
Some officials failed to meet the president because of the fake corona results .
Some candidates have not been competed against in the general elections .
The family has served in various positions in the army .
Her father was a former Idi Amin officer .
The parliamentarian grew up on the Ugandan border .
Her family came back to Uganda after a regime change in nineteen eighty-six .
She studied her primary school at the border area .
She was committed to her studies .
She graduated from Makerere University .
She had a passion for education .
She started equipping people with knowledge at the Uganda Christian University .
She pioneered the existence of a locally-based organisation .
She got a job opportunity in her own field of expertise .
She was committed and focused on her duties within the organisation .
She had the desire of representing the people in her home area .
She entered politics and contested for a political position .
She was sworn in as the District woman member of parliament .
People thought they would lose if they contested with her .
She became a member of parliament without being opposed .
She wants her people to have a better way of life .
She understands people's problems more than anyone else .
She knows how to deal with people and various challenges faced by them .
She aims at emphasizing social transformation by connecting people to different opportunities .
She wants people to have access to their basic needs .
The parliamentarian is married and has a family .
The people in the area have participated in agricultural activities .
The farmers get poor quality seed varieties .
Fifty per cent of seeds sold on the Ugandan market are counterfeit .
Many farmers in the same region bought the fake seeds .
The two-day workshop was organized to train farmers about the fake seeds .
Human rights are the freedom that belongs to everyone in the world .
While in business activities we should respect each other .
We need to collaborate with potential stakeholders .
Farmers have a right to participate in decision making .
Through the training ,  farmers got to know their rights .
Farmers were educated about the fake seeds and their challenges .
The farmers did not know that they also have their rights .
They have been informed about where to get good quality seeds .
The district leaders taught the farmers their rights and what to follow .
It increased their ability to achieve their objectives effectively and efficiently .
Many groups have come up to teach farmers about the fake seeds on the market .
Fake seeds affect farm productivity .
They sell seeds to farmers that promise high yields but fail to germinate at all .
Fake seeds lead to low productivity thus keeping farmers in poverty .
Village elders urged the farmers not to plant the seeds .
Christians are using the pandemic as an excuse of not tithing .
He is a God of all seasons .
The president announced the opening of places of worship last week .
He urged them to spread the word of God in all corners of the country .
The church helped thousands of people to get a sustainable source of water .
The pastor's wife introduced the sewing project to the youth .
The pastor's house is under construction .
Kenya reopened places of worship under strict conditions .
The organization is teaching the community about the risks of early pregnancies in girls .
The youth are exposed to sexually transmitted diseases .
The youth should avoid gathering in crowded places .
Almost one-fifth of adolescents girls in Africa get pregnant .
With early pregnancies ,  teenagers face a risk of delivery complications .
The senior woman empowered young girls with knowledge .
It is better to get prevention than shying away .
Family planning has helped girls to avoid early pregnancies .
Teenage pregnancy is usually between the age of thirteen to nineteen .
There are many cases of defilement these days .
The youth are normally shy to open up about their sexual lives .
There is an improvement of access to antenatal care services for pregnant women .
Young girls are at a high risk of facing complications during birth .
During the pandemic times ,  cases of teenage pregnancy increased .
Qualified doctors at the main hospital normally handle Caesarean sections .
Girls open up about their reproductive lives since they are reached one on one .
Companies will risk losing out on opportunities if they fail to register .
The meeting was held with the oil companies in northern Uganda .
Companies in Western Uganda want to work with good suppliers .
Government has pledged to supply water in that new district .
Companies have been advised to register; otherwise ,  they will not get the opportunities available .
Training opportunities are for the business community to learn how to register their businesses .
Leaders need to be transparent about their land compensation policies .
They will employ the youth in that area .
They should be able to provide good human resource policies .
Individuals who meet the eligibility criteria will be employed .
A company has shown interest to work in Masaka .
Oil companies need to explain all their policies in local languages .
While addressing the community ,  they should be cautious about the language they use .
The program is going to run an awareness campaign in the ceremony .
The organization donated sanitary pads to primary seven girls .
They promised to donate more pads to girls in other classes once school reopen .
They supported the children through the provision of basic scholastic materials .
He will pay school fees for the best well-behaved pupils .
Teachers received two million shillings to better their welfare during the pandemic .
This plays a critical role in increasing teachers' devotion to work .
The headteacher will also benefit from this project .
The village chairperson is an old student of that school .
All teachers will be awarded if the pupils get first grades .
She was rewarded for her outstanding contribution to the school academic performance .
You should all work hard to excellence in your academics .
No school can succeed without skilled teachers .
Teenage pregnancy is a major interference to the educational achievement of girls .
The lockdown resulted in girls spending more time with boys and men .
Parent involvement helps to improve student behaviour in the classroom .
The old students of the school have donated scholastic materials .
The donation has come in the time when it's needed .
The provision of these materials will help pupils to receive a quality education .
Thank you for helping us to become proud parents .
The poor performance was the result of teachers' absenteeism .
Beekeeping is a potential source income for farmers .
They have not got enough beekeeping training .
He wanted to get more training in beekeeping .
The training emphasized working in harmony with nature .
My brother has benefited a lot from using modern beehive .
They volunteered for cleanups in their community .
Youths from refugee camps have greatly participated in the activities .
Honey from bees has health benefits .
Teams were formed to help in sensitizing beekeeping in the community .
It doesn't require a lot of capital to begin beekeeping .
They will be trained for a specific period of time .
Record keeping is essential in farming .
It will create peace and understanding within the two groups .
Farming is also a source of income for refugees .
Adolescents need life long skills to build better futures for themselves .
They are sensitizing the youth to plant more trees .
The campaign of tree planting will be extended to different parts of the district .
During dry season crops dry up .
The funds will be transferred to the group bank account .
Seedlings should be brought at the beginning of the wet season .
Mothers are grateful for the renovation of the maternity ward .
The group works in every area of development .
It was to honour the women who die of complications during pregnancy and childbirth .
Many people and organisations give up funds for charity .
Hospitals must have water and power in every ward .
Donations support hospital operations .
There is always something to be given away on a handover ceremony .
How can health service delivery be improved ?
Through corporate social responsibility ,  organisations can reach out to the community .
It is greatly reputable for an organisation to do corporate social responsibility .
Hospitals should employ enough medical officers to operate efficiently .
More birth rates lead to an increase in population .
What are some of the challenges women face in accessing maternal services ?
Health centres provide health services to all kinds of people .
Most presidential candidates are attached to a political party .
What is the necessity of holding party primary elections ?
All leadership comes from God .
What are the indicators of mature politics ?
Our actions send a message to those around us .
How can we overcome unemployment among the youths ?
Skills equip one with the ability to be employed or self-employed .
How can we eradicate poverty in Uganda ?
Some people steal because they do not have money to meet their basic needs .
Political parties need to empower their members .
Discipline is also needed in politics .
There is an increasing number of coronavirus patients .
Given the size of the hospital ,  most of them have limited bed capacity .
Under what circumstances can a hospital refer a patient to another hospital ?
Some patients can be treated from home .
There various ways of reaching treatment to patients .
Standard operating procedures must be followed to prevent coronavirus spread .
Careless health workers are the ones that get infected with diseases .
How can we control the increasing number of infections ?
Tent based space could help increase the number of patients attended to .
Appreciate your staff for the work done .
Could be some patients die of other diseases and not coronavirus .
The government spends quite a lot of money on compensations .
Wars negatively affect business operations .
The attorney general is the principal legal adviser to the government of Uganda .
It is more official to put your request in writing .
A plaintiff is a person who brings a case against another in a court law .
Leaders ought to serve their subordinates .
Those in government embezzle most government money .
There is a lot of bureaucracy in government operations .
Some promises are never fulfilled .
Rebels are ruthless .
Leaders should be mindful of whom they delegate tasks to .
What causes refugees to clash with host communities ?
Be mindful of the decisions you make .
Aim to live peacefully with everyone in the community .
Leaders should aim to unite people .
Some issues if not managed at the initial stages they can go out of hand .
How can we peacefully coexist with others ?
Leaders ought to condemn brutal acts in society .
What is the role of cultural leaders in the community ?
Revengeance leads to disunity .
What causes conflicts among people ?
Cultural leaders are significant people in the community .
Good acts are needed in every society .
Market vendors were involved in a riot .
The choice is up to you .
A death sentence is a sentence condemning a convicted defendant to death .
People living with albinism should be treated equally with others .
Suspects should be thoroughly investigated .
Bills are passed by parliament .
What is the role of the ministry of finance in Uganda ?
Murder is a criminal offence punishable by law .
Laws have been established to prevent people from killing others .
Could be politicians are behind the increasing number of human sacrifices .
Witchcraft is bad and evil .
People can always turn away from their ungodly ways .
An obligation is something one is bound to do .
Human sacrifices are due to the ungodly nature of people .
Ritual sacrifices are satanic .
One below the age of eighteen years is considered underage .
In Uganda ,  a man must give dowry to the girl's parents .
Women should be respected and given equal opportunities like men .
The community should be acknowledged on the dangers of early marriages .
All leaders must aim at fighting child marriages .
Polygamy is when a man has more than one wife at the same time .
A responsible parent is one that rightly guides his child regarding life matters .
Some family planning methods can be used to prevent teenage pregnancy .
Money enforces things to be done .
Who is a teenager ?
Teenage pregnancies make young girls mothers at a very early stage of their life .
Defilement is also a criminal offence .
Organisations have come up to empower young women in the community .
Women need to go into marriage when physically and mentally ready .
Every organisation has a specific area of operation .
Are political primary elections necessary ?
Elections are done on specific dates .
Is a warning a threat or ?
Competitions involve more than one participant .
Political party activities must abide by the law .
Police maintain law and order in society .
Alcohol is not for those below the age of eighteen years .
Children below the age of eighteen are not eligible voters .
They protect people and their property .
She wants to retain the seat next year .
The election process was unfair in many parts of the country .
Many parents rural areas force young girls into marriage .
Such parents should be punished .
Many girls are dropping out of school due to the pandemic .
This requires a joint effort to be stopped completely .
There are communities which totally support these marriages .
Religious leaders are supposed to guide parents on such practices .
Girls and women are tortured by men every day .
Most cultures in Uganda favour men over women when it comes to marriage .
Marriage life has changed a lot in this generation .
Women are humans ,  not animals .
Women were created in God's image ,  so they deserve to be respected .
Youth have got serious mental illnesses due to drugs .
Poor upbringing has contributed to this .
It is not an easy task to the end .
Local leaders should penalize the families involved in early marriages .
They told them everything that happened during the voting exercise .
Some people were injured during the process .
The officials found their work difficult during the voting process .
Some voters were non-residents of the community .
Cheating was in broad daylight .
The voting process was interrupted .
The underage also took part in the voting process .
The voting results were forged .
Despite everything that happened ,  they still won the elections .
He put the whole blame on the presiding officers .
He did everything possible to win in his parish .
This case was reported to the police .
This behaviour tarnished the image of the party .
He is a devoted member of the party .
The party leader is not happy with some members .
Teachers have been badly affected by the pandemic .
They want to get assistance from the government .
Private teachers' have their main office in Kampala .
The committee was put in place to run the activities of the group .
This pandemic has made their lives hard .
It has opened the eyes of private teachers always to plan .
Most of these teachers are surviving on loans .
These teachers have been very patient .
The minister advised teachers to be united to achieve their goals .
They also deserve to live happily like other workers .
This pandemic period is an opportunity for them to organize themselves .
All members are called upon to be very active in group activities .
The educational officer advised them to remain committed despite the challenges they face .
A teaching job is a calling to national service .
Teachers can also own shops to supplement their income .
A single income is not enough for basic needs .
Engaging in agriculture assures a steady food supply to teachers' families .
People are not ready to follow his orders .
Forest officers need to be guarded against people's attacks .
They have stayed on this land for a long time .
The residents have set a condition for him .
They need proof of land ownership .
It is likely to affect the politics of the district .
Why didn't the government tell us in time ?
He hid the information from us .
Those are false accusations against him .
Efforts were made to find out the truth behind this conflict .
Leaders have taken this issue to bigger offices but achieved nothing .
The truth is that the land belongs to the government .
Selfish people gear the conflict .
These residents were warned about the state of their settlement .
Cowards already left the land a long time ago .
Planting of more trees will increase rainfall in the district .
Peaceful means of solving this issue is better than violence .
Timber is very useful to people .
Residents time to stay on this land is over .
They had covered a larger area of the land .
The government gave this man permission over the land .
Church leaders have met the minister to talk about the reopening .
Churches have many income-generating activities .
They have continued to preach the word of God despite the pandemic challenges .
People are now praying through the media .
Church leaders have preached words of encouragement and hope to people .
How many regional referral hospitals do we have in Uganda ?
Curfew was put in place with immediate effect .
We have two weeks to exams .
Police are patrolling the area .
What are your medical results ?
Many people are infected with the coronavirus .
Coronavirus pandemic has affected our business operations .
How many dependants do you have ?
Pandemic diseases have killed a lot of people .
I will be briefing the press this evening .
People affected with coronavirus have to be quarantine for two weeks .
Take your drugs on time ,  and you will be healed .
The country is on the lockdown .
We have the highest confirmed cases of coronavirus .
Why are you using traditional medicine ?
There is no cure or medicine for coronavirus .
Follow the standard guidelines in order to prevent the spread of coronavirus .
The government needs to review how to deliver services to the people .
How can we dodge this traffic ?
How many coronavirus cases do we have ?
We need the accountability of funds given to you .
Health workers should be given allowances .
How many funds did the hospital receive from government ?
The hospital is under renovation .
Which payment should I use ?
Coronavirus is not a deadly disease .
What amount is on that receipt ?
Doctors have taken long without getting paid .
It is very cold outside ?
We don't have money .
What treatment is given to coronavirus patients ?
We need more funds .
The task force presented their accountability to the government .
Don't risk walking at night alone .
What is the expenditure ?
What are the causes of food shortage ?
When will you be discharged from the hospital ?
Why are you so emotional .
More jobs have been created .
Which treatment did the doctor give you ?
When are they electing women councillors ?
Everyone deserves equal opportunities .
Discrimination is everywhere ,  and we must fight together to end it .
Which district are you representing ?
If you think education is expensive try ignorance .
What have you achieved in the past years ?
Babies are blessings from God .
The law must be implemented .
Guidelines must be followed .
We want a peaceful transition of power .
The national budget will be read today .
Youths are encouraged to work hard .
The government is fighting against gender-based violence by sensitizing the public .
We should not allow any kind of discrimination .
My application has been rejected .
What are the causes of depression ?
You should go for counselling .
Marriage is for grown-up people .
What are my cultural beliefs ?
People are suffering from depression .
We all have different backgrounds .
Why teenage pregnancy is a problem ?
Will you participate in the competition ?
What are the roles of diocesan leaders ?
Diocese is head by the Bishop .
Early pregnancy is bad .
Next year we will have a general election .
When are you paying me back my money ?
Political parties have presented their candidates .
Elderly should be given high positions in this country .
You need to drink a lot of water .
My son is born blind .
My grandson is very creative .
We are going to launch the campaign in the next few hours .
The government is introducing new taxes .
Where is your home located ?
We must fight coronavirus .
Human rights organisation are suing the police for its brutality .
District returning office declared the winner of the elections .
Our legal team is comprised of five lawyers .
Where is the venue ?
We must follow electoral commission guidelines .
How many professional courses have you done ?
The electoral commission needs funds from the government to prepare elections .
We missed the game .
Do you have the power to perform miracles ?
We have been threatened by the police .
Do we condemn the police brutality ?
How many political parties are in Uganda ?
What activities are you participating in ?
Has the electoral commission confirmed the polling date ?
We have democracy in Uganda .
He was taken to the police station to make a statement .
Do you have access to the internet ?
What is your conclusion ?
The electoral commission is nominating presidential candidates .
The pandemic has increased conflicts in families .
Those who have enough items should help the needy .
Churches have been opened on strict guidelines .
They have allowed only seventy people per service .
The cultural leader wants to improve the administration of the community .
This is a new leadership strategy for the community .
The elders welcomed his proposal during the meeting .
This will balance the representation of all people .
The community needs new leaders to replace the old .
New leaders come with new ideas .
Government has offered support to cultural institutions .
The committee agreed on the right method of selecting new leaders .
The leaders shall have assistants to help them fulfil their duties .
Good leadership Will effectively serve people's interests .
Unity will enable them to manage any challenge .
These leaders must be in a position to handle conflicts properly .
Politics shouldn't be mixed with cultural matters .
Exemplary life is key to leadership .
The voting process must be free and fair to all .
People should vote for potential leaders .
A good leader serves without exploitation .
He invited journalists to address issues to do with the forthcoming election .
What is a modern city like ?
Properly planned cities attract investors .
How can one run an infant city ?
Politicians have the power to develop a nation .
What qualities are considered for an area to achieve a city status ?
Failing in elections means that your rival had more votes than you did have .
Critics should not perturb you .
Always stand for what is right .
The current generation prepares and sets the pace for the forthcoming generations .
Some locals are very poor to afford certain services .
Land surveyors are very expensive .
Currently ,  most constituencies in Uganda have been divided into two .
How much is the land registration process ?
Surveyors make measurements to determine land boundaries .
The public should report wrongdoers to authorities .
What requirements are needed for a land survey ?
Land can be sold in exchange for money .
Landowners register their land to get a land title .
Teachers unions fight for the rights of teachers .
Five months without pay is too long .
Operations originate from the headquarters .
Different leaders are elected for different duties .
Coronavirus has greatly affected the education system of Uganda .
Get something good to learn from every situation .
The future is very uncertain; therefore one needs to plan well .
Hold onto hope in the trying moments .
In a union ,  people with a common interest come together for a common cause .
What is the role of the teacher's union ?
Some things that happen are eye-openers for some people .
Teachers should join the effort and fight for their profession .
Teachers are service providers in the education sector .
Unions must be of benefit to the members associated with them .
Thinking outside the box results into innovation and creativity .
Teachers should make investments elsewhere for an extra source of income .
People now have small gardens in their compounds .
What is the role of National Forest Authority in Uganda ?
Why should security be used to intimidate people ?
Agriculture is mostly practised on land .
Educate your children by taking them to school
Food is a basic need for a man .
Sometimes the government forcefully takes peoples land .
The public has a legal right to participate in political matters .
Government gazettes land for forest growing .
National Forest Authority reserves forests in Uganda .
There are lots of challenges faced in preserving forests .
Intimidating residents causes insecurity to them .
Besides preserving the environment ,  trees are planted for sale .
Increased population leads to competition over the available resources .
Uganda encourages reservation of forests .
The public should be aware of forest reserve areas .
Locals should not occupy government gazetted land .
When farmers' products are ready ,  they are harvested .
Forests help in rain formation .
What conditions have been put in place to fight terrorism ?
Forests have very many benefits .
Settlements are not allowed in reserved areas .
Advertisement is a way of creating awareness to the public .
Aim at diversifying your sources of income .
Bishops teach people about the things of God .
During this season ,  most preachers are preaching via social media platforms .
Church leaders should support their Christians even outside the church .
During the coronavirus season ,  many people have suffered in different ways .
Giving to the needy is one act expected of a Christian .
Churches and mosques were closed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus .
Media and social media platforms have greatly helped in spreading the word of God .
What is the role of a chief in the  subcounty ?
Cultural institutions help people to hold onto cultural norms .
Meetings must have a venue .
Substantive chiefs are cultural leaders in some communities .
Clan leaders make decisions on behalf of fellow clan members .
We need a government that can deliver on its promises .
Chiefs are no longer significant in today's villages .
A consensus is a general agreement .
Some leaders become leaders through an appointment .
All cultures should be recognised at the national level .
Even in the midst of development ,  there are challenges faced .
Culture helps youths to hold onto good morals .
Leaders should not be subjective .
Leaders should endeavour to unite all people .
Through elections ,  we either vote good or bad people into a position of power .
Vote genuine leaders that are ready to work and improve services .
Leadership is God-given .
The president addressed the media on issues regarding the lockdown .
Potential leaders should be visionary and developmental .
What makes a city modern ?
Slums are common in poorly planned cities .
What makes you best suited for that job ?
Good leadership has to aim at development .
Why are some districts not ready for city status ?
Cities are planned for .
A developed transport system contributes to economic development .
Leaders change leadership positions over time .
As a leader ,  you ought to be focused .
People should always do what is appropriate .
We should always focus on the future .
The district should know all its residents .
People are required to pay a reasonable amount of money which they cannot afford .
The parliamentarian will clear the costs on behalf of the people .
The parliamentarian wants another term in parliament .
People do not have the income to facilitate the registration process .
The district should reduce registration expenses .
People should be aware of thieves .
The district should establish a program whereby a resident only pays once .
The member of parliament has helped people to protect their land .
The member of parliament made sure that people do not sell their land .
The parliamentarian has sensitized people to engage in agricultural activities .
The parliamentarian will lobby for funds and establish income-generating activities .
He was clear about his objectives when he joined the National Resistance Movement .
He wants to improve people's lifestyle .
Every decision he makes is in the interest of his own people .
People should work with the ruling party instead of opposing it .
He is confident that he will still represent the people of Ayivu west in parliament .
He wanted the people to be part of the country's socio-economic transformation .
He was hopeful that the people of Arua would attain socio-economic transformation .
He needed to support the ruling party for the people of West Nile to benefit .
The parliamentarian was exemplary to other leaders .
The parliamentarian joined politics life at a young age .
He got the experience which gave him the confidence to contest for the parliamentary seat .
The army is used to intimidate the opposition leaders .
The army wants opposition leaders to be aligned to the ruling party .
The army is playing political cards against opposition leaders .
The army has started laying strategies to influence the coming elections .
The army will be used to help the ruling party win the elections .
The commander explained that the army is non-partisan ,  and the accusations are baseless .
The commander explained that the army is concerned about peace and order .
The incumbent is worried about the increasing number of officers in the area .
He informed people to be alert about the current situation in West Nile .
Innovations in Arua have simplified business activities .
People can access goods and services very fast .
The technology links and connects people to different businesses .
People will have an improved transport network .
It will create good relationships among people in the transport business .
The technology will provide security for the boda-boda men .
The technology establishes the order in the transport network .
It is cost-effective and saving .
The platform has brought bodaboda men to work together and improve their welfare .
The platform has improved the relationship between the riders and with their customers .
The platform will encourage more people into the transport business .
He informed the riders to observe traffic laws .
More people are joining the political atmosphere in the country .
They want to serve the people .
The candidate wants to represent the ruling party in Arua .
He informed the people of Arua about his manifesto .
He told people his family background .
He explained his education life and the skills and knowledge attained from school .
He is well educated with several degrees .
He has a working experience of seventeen years .
He has worked with different organisations and government agencies .
He also has a passion for the rotary club .
He has a passion for the sport .
He also engages in business activities .
He wants to improve on the people's way of life .
He wants to establish good governance in the area .
He wants to respond to the existing problems faced by the people .
He emphasizes good representation and leadership for the people .
He wants to work for the people ,  their views and their interests .
He wants to understand people's problems by reaching out to them .
He intends to ensure proper allocation and distribution of the country's resources .
He intends to bring people together and have a common goal in society .
There shall be an equal distribution of resources in the district .
People should be involved in decision-making processes .
He will introduce cooperative unions .
He will represent the interests of all his people .
All people must be respected because they were created in God's image .
He intends to lobby funds from the government through youth livelihood programs .
He intends to advocate for an increase in the equalisation grants .
People should understand the importance of land in rural transformation .
He informed people to register their land to avoid land grabbing .
He intends to ensure infrastructural development .
People should behave during campaigns .
He informed people that he is an advocate of stability ,  social order and unity .
He respects competitors because they play a good role in changing society .
He wants people to work together before ,  during and after elections .
Politics should not divide people but rather should unite and bring them together .
He wishes his strongest competitor ,  good health .
He wants to oust him without any excuses .
People need a change of leadership in Arua city .
He wants to boost business activities in Arua .
People in Arua are having poor standards of living .
The district officials have failed to properly and effectively plan for the people .
He will provide capital so that people get involved in business activities .
He explains that it is time for young people to lead .
He will ensure and encourage electricity distribution and transmission .
He is result-oriented .
He ensured that people have access to better services .
He has grown up from Arua and understands people's problems .
He is an educated and a family man .
The district should ensure that the ambulances serve their rightful purpose .
The district should recruit drivers who are ethical and have maximum integrity .
People are using ambulances to support their personal activities .
The district officials sometimes use these ambulances to smuggle goods into the country .
The district is faced with misallocation and misappropriation of funds .
Drivers should drive patients carefully .
All movements by ambulances are monitored .
They decided to carry out further investigations .
Ambulance drivers are being addressed on service delivery .
More funding should be directed to fueling ambulances .
More emergency health centres have been put up .
Border districts are being developed .
Border districts have developed a lot since the year started .
Refugees in each district should be counted .
They recorded the total number of refugees .
Refugees in different districts should be united .
A lot is being done to improve the welfare of refugees .
The community should be involved in district demarcation .
A survey on settlements at border districts is being held .
Some border districts are at war .
It is alleged that the ambulances were donated by the government .
They realized that the ambulances were donated by an individual .
The speaker acknowledged receipt of the ambulances .
More funds are being raised to purchase ambulances .
She donated some of the ambulances .
There was a general assembly today .
The ambulances have been a great contribution to the health sector .
She exposed the documents about the ambulances .
More beds were purchased for the hospital .
Many schoolgirls are defiled monthly .
Defilement leads to forced marriages .
The girl child should be protected against sexual abuse .
Rapists ought to be arrested .
Woman emancipation is everyone's responsibility .
The gender gap is still big .
Girl empowerment projects are ongoing .
The ongoing projects are really inclusive .
The number of rape cases is increasing rapidly .
All rape cases should be reported .
The police should ensure justice for the defiled .
Northern Uganda has been developed .
The king addressed his kingdom .
All newly elected leaders were congratulated .
He said that our diversity should unite us .
Different cultural leaders should unite for development .
The West Nile region comprises various tribes .
The people from the West Nile have several cultural activities .
Cultural activities should be respected .
Arua was declared a city .
Arua city has new leadership .
We should learn about the history of our cultures .
Different tribes have different cultures .
Some cultures are common among several tribes .
Children usually inherit their parents' property .
The West Nile region is very peaceful .
A city building caught fire last night .
The police are still investigating the cause of the fire .
No one died in the burnt building .
The guests managed to run out of the building as it burnt down .
The police put out the fire .
People had tried their best to extinguish the fire but didn't succeed .
All the furniture in the building burnt down .
The whole building perished due to the fire .
The people who were in the building were not injured .
The fire spread out so fast throughout the building .
No one believes the building actually got burnt .
News reporters arrived while the building was still on fire .
So many documents were burnt in the building .
People must wear masks even while in vehicles .
Public transport is now open .
The public is well informed about the lifting of the lockdown .
The spread of coronavirus disease has been low this week .
Border districts are still under lockdown .
We are advised to observe the standard operating procedures .
The lockdown was only lifted on public transport according to today's address .
He emphasized that social distancing should be observed .
Anyone who doesn't wear a mask risks contacting coronavirus disease .
Many people have now adopted to mask-wearing .
New coronavirus disease cases were registered today .
Taxi drivers work under a certain organization .
More coronavirus disease cases were revealed today .
Mosquito nets were distributed to reduce the spread of malaria .
The mosquito nets are planned to be distributed all over the country .
Malaria is on the rise .
Eastern Uganda will receive the mosquito nets this month .
The mosquito nets were delivered at my doorstep .
The mosquito nets were given out for two months .
Refugees were also given mosquito nets .
People are advised to sleep under mosquito nets .
Sleeping under a mosquito net prevents malaria .
Malaria is a curable disease .
Malaria was very common last year .
People may die of malaria if they are not careful .
People requested for food relief from the government .
The contacts of the patients were left to go .
People are working tirelessly to fight coronavirus disease .
Many people lack food due to the lockdown .
We received some food relief .
Some districts didn't receive any food relief .
The elections were delayed .
Coronavirus patients are tired of being hospitalized .
The electoral commission is responsible for organising elections at every level
Political parties train their candidates on the kind of message to spread to the public .
Political party members will elect their leaders .
It's the police's responsibility to protect Ugandans .
People are to follow orders from the police .
People tend not to follow instructions .
No one is above the law .
There are conflicts among religious leaders .
Religious leaders should love each other .
People sometimes take matters in their own hands .
Not everyone who likes you cares about you .
People don't always care .
It is good to make friends .
In everything you do ,  accountability is required
Reporting a case to the police does not make you a criminal
It is only during bad times when people tend to care .
It is only during bad times when you see people you like you
It is a good practice to help family members .
It is good practice to help friends .
You should always appreciate the little that someone has done for you
Saying thank you to someone shows that you appreciate their contribution .
It is very hard to be homeless if you have people who still care about you
It's a good practice to help those in need .
Good hygiene can prevent the spread of most diseases
Overcrowded places increase on the spread of diseases
The government has failed to help pregnant mothers .
It's the government's responsibility to treat its people from various diseases .
Hand washing can prevent the spread of certain diseases
The number of refugees in Uganda is increasing
We need to stop the spread of diseases in crowded areas .
There is an easy spread of diseases in crowded areas .
The government has not taught people about the various diseases
You can use any kind of soap to wash your hands .
Children should be taught about disease prevention .
The government has stepped up to help the refugees in the country
People are now going to court for any legal issues that may arise
It's the court that gives the date to hear court cases
Giving a court date depends on a number of issues
People are no longer allowed in court for the fear of coronavirus
People are to follow instructions provided by the government
Not everyone is happy with a court ruling
Everyone is happy with a court ruling
It's the court's responsibility to judge a person's wrongdoings
Nowadays people are taking matters into their own hands
Nowadays people are not bothered by the president speech .
people do not know how to control their temper
you have a right to plead not guilty in a court
people are now employing people who are below eighteen years of age
Nowadays everyone in the family has to work no matter what age they are .
Many people are now involving children in farming .
After schools closed ,  children engaged in farming ,  and selling of food .
Some pupils can not study on radio or television because they don't have them .
The government is trying to educate parents on ways to protect their children's rights
The government is trying to continue to educate the children even when they are at home
after schools closed ,  children are now looking for jobs
Children are being overworked either by their parents or other employers
The government is doing whatever it can to protect children rights
The government has not done enough to protect children's rights .
The coronavirus has heavily impacted people's lives
After schools closed ,  children engaged in farming ,  and selling of food
In Uganda ,  some places are being turned into cities
Everything that has to be made has to first be passed through the committee for discussion
Let us set up a new committee .
People no longer go to the district offices to approve their construction plans
It's the district's responsibility to approve all construction plans before construction begins
For a district to develop ,  all government bodies involved have to cooperate .
We need more cities in Uganda which look like Kampala .
District councillors and members of parliament ,  both deliver different plans for the district to people
Not all the leaders will have a common goal for their area
There is still an increase in corruption in the government
The government is doing its best to fight corruption
Improving agriculture is one of the things the government is focusing on
Public hospital doctors are not well paid
The government take long to pay doctors in public hospitals
Nowadays people are recovering from the coronavirus
Doctors and nurses put in a lot to make sure people are treated and healed
It seems there is still fund embezzlement in the government
Paying people's salaries in time motivates them to work more
Workers can strike if not paid in time
It is not a must to pay all workers at the same time .
It is a good thing to have a bank account if you are working for the government
The government usually sends out money to local councils to pay their workers
During the coronavirus ,  outbreak doctors and nurses received an increase in their salaries
If work is done ,  accountability is required
The government tries to educate its people on the various diseases in the country
Majority of the people in Uganda use motorcycles as a form of transport
Instead of people motorcycles are instructed to carry only cargo
A small issue can cause people to strike
The president isn't the only one who makes decisions on the country's affairs
Majority of the youth in the country are motorists
The public is also free to suggest ideas for the government to look into
The government does what it can to protect its people from the coronavirus
The poverty rates in Uganda increased during the lockdown
When will the vaccine for coronavirus come out ?
We need new directives to assist in preventing the spread of coronavirus .
A small issue can cause problems .
We have very many people in our family
Which kind of music do you like most ?
Who is your role model ?
This is a rainy season .
Leadership is an opportunity given to serve the people .
Christians purchased a brand new lorry for the diocese .
The lorry was bought at two hundred eighty-five million shillings .
The church will provide hiring services which will generate income .
Christians came together to respond to the needs of the clergy .
The lorry will be used to carry out business activities in Arua .
The diocese will decrease on income spent on transferring clergies .
The diocese has started to engage in business activities .
The diocese bought a brand new lorry to solve transport issues .
The bishop team will embark on purchasing a brand new double cabin .
Friends of the bishop is a group which was established in two thousand eighteen .
Madi and West Nile dioceses are the largest in the Church of Uganda .
The diocese covers six districts .
There is the improved power supply in Arua through the Rural electrification agency .
A five hundred kilovolts generator was installed to boost power generation .
Six generators will increase the power supply up to nearly three megawatts .
Two four megawatts generators will be installed after their transportation from Tororo .
A new generator will be installed at the factory .
The limited power supply in the area has discouraged business from taking place .
There have been unlimited cases of power outages in West Nile .
The government of Uganda has encouraged power transmission in the area .
People are worried that power may be costly .
Improved supply of power will encourage the establishment of industries in the West Nile .
People lack enough money to sustain their lives .
Some businesses cannot operate without power supply .
The power generated in the region is insufficient for business and home use .
Electricity generation in Karuma will increase the supply of power in West Nile .
The cost of power will not change .
Arua catholic diocese lost a staunch Christian .
The doctor was suffering from malaria .
May his soul rest in eternal peace .
The deceased was against the church ,  so the people refused to attend his burial .
The Christian was expelled from the church for demanding rent arrears .
The church needed an apologetic letter from the excommunicated Christian .
The Christian explained that he did not commit any crime when he demanded rent .
The clergy refused to pray for him before he was laid to rest .
The church lost another member .
He was also suffering from yellow fever .
The clergy will not tolerate people who are against the church .
The church congregation has lost six children since the beginning of the year .
The lease for the land given to them is expired .
The Italian missionaries failed to pay for the lease over the land .
The church's failure to pay resulted in condemning the Christians .
The role of the church is to spread the gospel .
People want to rescue their land from the Church .
The parish council held a meeting to discuss the land dispute .
Those who were against building a new church were expelled from the committee .
People with names on the list were supposed to confess their sins .
The church will turn the disputed land into freehold .
People should be informed about the significance of the budget in the country .
People would be able to demand accountability from the government .
Citizens have a duty to monitor and regulate the operations of the government .
People in west Nile should be informed about how and why they should pay taxes .
Uganda revenue authority has set up various conferences to educate people about taxation .
People should give out their views on the taxation policies in the country .
People are not concerned about the regularities and irregularities in the tax policy .
People should advocate for changes in the tax policy .
Various groups have been established in West Nile to fight tax injustices .
The group will involve politicians in the course to achieve tax reforms .
People held meetings to discuss the existing challenges in the society .
The Muslim cleric was sworn in unlawfully .
He was confirmed as the representative for Muslim leaders .
The defendant did not appear in court .
Some Muslim leaders are causing disunity .
The people of Arua elected a new Muslim leader .
Some Muslims are not content with the actions of their leaders .
Some Muslims broke away from the Supreme Council when it sold off Muslim properties .
The new supreme Khadi has the qualities of a good leader .
Muslims should work together and serve the people .
Muslim leaders are supposed to be united and not disunited .
Representatives of the supreme council vowed to stop the installation of the new Khadi .
Muslims explained why a diocese could not have two leaders at the same time .
People vowed to fight for unity and togetherness in Arua district .
The youths will be equipped with leadership skills .
The officials will organise debates in schools about the prevailing challenges in society .
The program targets student leaders who will be nurtured and groomed in leadership .
The program aims at grooming students to be the leaders of tomorrow .
Students should be allowed to participate in decision making .
Students will acquire knowledge about governance .
People should be informed about the rules and regulations for society .
Students will compete at the national level about the dynamics in governance .
The best students will be trained for the inter-regional competitions .
The project will unite and promote patriotism in the country .
Students should know about governance to understand current political trends .
Ugandans need to be educated and informed to reform their country .
The president should grant Arua a city status .
The president should provide for his people .
The district aims at establishing a regional airport .
The government should distribute resources evenly to various regions .
A new plan for developing Arua should be made .
The district officials informed the president about the challenges faced by the people .
There is a lot of politicking in the government .
The city status comes with an increase in funding .
Officials in Arua are advocating for city status .
District officials are focused on improving the welfare of the people .
Residents in Arua district have engaged in business activities .
Arua district has a shortage of power supply .
Water and electricity supply should be extended to rural areas .
Some businesses depend on electricity for their operations .
The museum attracts tourists .
Tourists come to Uganda to visit game reserves and other tourism sites .
A sample is often a portion of the whole .
What conditions are available for a municipality to gain a city status ?
Islam is one of the religions in Uganda .
The sheikh teaches and guides members of the Islamic faith .
People express their loyalty in different ways .
Moslems go to the mosque for prayers .
Catholic and protestant religions are administratively organised .
Youths love to use slogans in their conversations .
The police's role is to keep law and order in the community .
Religions are allowed to form associations in Uganda .
Is it appropriate to register mosques as non-government organisations ?
New leaders are usually sworn in for the new leadership positions .
They demonstrated in protest to the new policy passed .
Obey the law ,  and you shall have no issues with the police .
Sanitary pads are a necessity for women .
Cotton and threads are some of the materials used in making reusable pads .
Reusable pads are relatively cheap to make .
I love craftwork .
Many people are educated ,  but they do not have jobs .
Unemployment among youths is very high in Uganda .
A skill acquired can be used to make money .
Youths are being trained in different skills like hairdressing .
Literally ,  women are not allowed to take alcohol .
International women's day is celebrated on the eighth of March every year .
What are some of the reproductive health rights and services ?
What should be done for women to stop consuming alcohol ?
In some societies ,  women are treated as a priority .
Report your complaints to the police station if necessary .
Sachet waragi was banned in Uganda .
Alcohol is usually packaged in glass bottles .
What evidence is there to prove that she has been domestically violated ?
Do not believe every propaganda .
The organisation has come out to support the women in society .
Women can also contribute positively to society .
Men ,  women and children need to be sensitized about their roles in a home .
Some government projects can only be successful if publicly embraced .
Increased household income leads to improved standards of living .
Farmers are more in rural areas than in the towns .
A group consists of three and more members .
Given the current rainy season ,  only farmers are the beneficiaries of it .
Fertile land is very good for crop growing .
Government has funded several projects .
Some government programs have created no impact on society .
Very few people will benefit from the upcoming land bill .
Of what benefit shall electronic vouchers be to the farmers ?
Cassava is one of the foods I enjoy most .
Farmers are encouraged to create diversity in their activities .
What could cause the public to reject certain government projects ?
How can we introduce modern farming to farmers ?
What is the role of the Ministry of Agriculture ,  Animal Industry and Fisheries in Uganda ?
Few people turned up for the program registration .
Farmers have hope in their farm produce .
Farmers with a common interest form groups .
Commitment towards anything is essential .
You should network with other people in the business .
Government invests heavily in various projects to benefit the public .
Why didn't you enrol to that mathematics course ?
Farmers did not register because they were not interested .
Cassava can be used to make cassava flour .
What are some of the crops grown in West Nile Uganda ?
Almost all of the prisons in Uganda are government-owned .
What does the court of appeal registrar do ?
Is it necessary to make an election petition ?
What is a warranty for court purposes ?
The judge can dismiss any court case .
By use of ballot papers ,  you can now secretly cast your vote .
The electoral commission is in charge of elections in Uganda .
Lawyers assist their clients on issues concerning the law .
Judges must be just and fair in their rulings .
In elections ,  voters are allowed to vote for their preferred leaders .
Who is an appellant ?
Those who fail to pay fines can also be taken to prison .
Why should he be removed from parliament ?
Under what conditions are by-elections held ?
What shall the health science laboratory be used for in the University ?
How many public universities are in Uganda ?
Being a university student ,  I have to go to the university campus .
We have private universities in Uganda .
How much capacity can a standard university hold ?
At the university students are encouraged to do research .
Contracts are legally binding .
Universities are higher institutions of learning .
Workers are encouraged to be transparent in their operations .
Youths are more energetic and active than the elderly .
The law should punish corrupt public officials .
Work is for a specified period of time .
Some leaders are dictators .
There is stiff competition among politicians .
Do we need a selfish leader ?
Very many people long for freedom .
Politicians usually have a great following of people .
Legislators write and pass laws .
Corruption is a great hindrance to development .
Forgive those that wrong you .
Health centre projects benefit society .
The current regime has not done enough .
Why are you drunk ?
My cow gave birth today .
Why do I confuse people's names ?
What are the basic needs of a family ?
How many cows do you have ?
Drinking too much alcohol over time can cause chronic physical and mental issues .
This is classified information .
Is consumption an infectious disease ?
How would you rank your staff level of commitment towards work ?
I am doing a course at university .
Why is unemployment among youths high ?
Have you signed your work contract ?
How can we improve learning in refugee communities ?
A ceremony is a formal event held on special occasions .
Why do parents fail to understand their kids ?
Decide what your studying goals are for each semester and each week .
When communicating with others ,  we often focus on what we should say .
This region is densely populated .
We need to trust one another .
Learn how your personality type influences your life .
Uganda is a beautiful country .
What you need is quality education .
What is your highest level of education ?
What type of training have you received from the conference ?
When are you taking that quiz ?
What are your achievements ?
He is mentally ill .
Do we have any group work ?
What should I expect on the quiz ?
What is the English pass mark ?
Do you know any quiz we take ?
What is your talent ?
Creativity is needed in your work .
Many people practice agriculture in Uganda .
What are undisclosed-recipients ?
She promised to pay for my school fees .
We need to plant more trees .
Do you believe in God ?
Let me see your creation .
Fruits are a source of vitamins .
When are you planting the mango seedlings ?
What are the rest of the children doing ?
Let him rest in peace .
He encouraged me to start a business .
I am selling my land .
We need to embrace the change .
What is commercial farming ?
Which things were donated to orphans ?
We hold delegates meetings twice a year .
Am so overwhelmed with work .
Do you have the election results ?
I inherited this land from my parents .
Which program did you apply for ?
How can we increase food production in Uganda ?
What is a project timeline ?
In which year were you born ?
He is planting maize this season ?
A village is a small community or group of houses in rural areas .
What are the types of fishing ?
Payroll is the list of employees who get paid by the company .
How many acres do you have ?
Am waiting for my driver .
What is your email address ?
Share your resume with the human resource .
Green is my favourite colour .
To win the trophy ,  we need to win every single game .
We had a good game today .
He is missing his family .
What are half time scores ?
Who is taking the penalty ?
Have you missed me ?
Who was the man of the match ?
In which stadium will the match take place ?
What are the strategic objectives ?
You must invest in yourself .
Will you be applying to the university ?
How can we protect a girl child ?
He encouraged the students not to drop out of school .
I decided to ignore his rude remarks .
It's been a decade since I started this business .
We need to empower communities .
The school is celebrating ten years of its existence .
You should pay your bills .
Heavy rains and strong winds destroy people's property .
We have guests today .
Where can I buy a girl's shoes ?
Why is it important to educate girls ?
Father is the head of the family .
It has rained all day .
I have been scheduled for an interview .
I intend to visit my grandmother in the village .
Which construction company got the contract to build roads ?
We need to maintain social distance .
Have you got your academic report ?
Shillings is the currency used in Uganda .
Many Uganda voters are in fear of violence in the next elections .
Plans can be implemented .
Do politicians break their promises once in government ?
All Ugandans have to stand together as one .
Why do African presidents rule till old age ?
Women's participation in politics helps to advance gender equality .
Educational institutions are putting in efforts to boost business and agriculture in schools .
The University will boost education in Northern Uganda .
Dedicate your life to serving God .
The University has branches in different countries of Africa .
They held a meeting in the town hall yesterday .
There is an understanding between the two Universities .
Students will gain the knowledge needed to run a business successfully .
Universities nowadays have failed to deliver employable graduates .
Online education is suitable for working students .
The understanding will help many people access educational programs .
They will learn about using computers .
A new maternity ward is under construction at the health centre .
The road construction is funded by using a loan from the world bank .
How long does it take to build a house ?
The region has only one health centre .
They have failed to start the process of land clearing .
The community has offered land for construction of the maternity ward .
The contractor is charging way more high than what he estimated .
The church has donated fifty beds to the health centre .
Residents are complaining over poor quality road works .
The health services are accessed by people from different parts of the country .
Due to lack of facilities ,  mothers are forced to move to other health centres .
There is an increase in the number of patients ,  yet the health workers are few .
Communities should participate in regular cleanliness drives .
Our forefathers protected the environment .
It is good to maintain healthy populations of wildlife .
More than fifty animals are killed in a year .
Tourism generates income for the country .
National parks protect places of natural beauty .
The protected places are limited to the public .
Their role is to strengthen wildlife conservation .
The high court has issued a warrant of arrest for the said poachers .
Uganda is gifted by nature .
Morocco is the most visited country in Africa .
Uganda collects a lot of income from tourism every year .
Tourism provides employment opportunities .
Tourism is increasing the standards of living of the people employed .
Tourism is now the fastest growing in Africa .
Government is urged to allocate more funds in tourism .
The district leader urged the government to develop other tourist sites .
Tourism generates jobs directly through hotels ,  restaurants and taxis .
There is an illegal capturing of wild animals .
There is an increase in wildlife animals every year .
There is an increase in the number of white rhinos .
Police shot a student during the teachers' strike .
Police will cater for all the medical expenses .
When is a police officer allowed to shoot ?
The shooting happened in the evening when the students were playing football .
The police will make sure the injured people get proper treatment .
The police officers visited the bedridden boy at the hospital .
A suspect has been charged in the Monday evening shooting .
The officer claimed the shooting was accidental .
The injured student was transferred to the regional main hospital for treatment .
The most difficult things a parent can face is when your child is hurt .
By the time he was taken to the hospital ,  he had lost a lot of blood .
The boy has been sick two weeks ago and is still undergoing malaria treatment .
His parents cannot afford taking care of him at the hospital .
The suspect was hurting so many people in the community .
He interfered with the rights of the public .
Whoever uses criminal force to any woman is punished with imprisonment .
Parents of the injured boy understood the circumstance at which their son was shot .
The international organization is giving free books to pupils in the refugee camps schools .
Six other schools from that region will also benefit from the project .
The distribution of these scholastic materials will begin next week on Tuesday .
The organization has used huge sums of money to buy these materials .
That will be a way of motivating young children to continue with their studies .
With the help of these materials ,  children will attend school every day .
An educated woman has the skills to be a better worker .
Children do better at school when their parents are involved in their academic lives .
The district is supporting education to children in refugee communities .
There is economic competition over scarce resources .
Some parents don't feel the importance of education .
The parents are grateful for the support given to the children by the organisation .
Parents should encourage their children to read more .
The town is full of shops selling clothes .
There is a competition between shops selling new clothes and second-hand clothes .
It's healthier to put on new clothes than second-hand clothes .
Second-hand clothes are cheaper .
A swimmer was disqualified from the race for how their swimsuit fitted their bodies .
Shops with wedding attires have been opened in their village towns .
These shops also sell office clothes and other accessories .
The shops basically deal with women's wear .
There is a fashion show to launch these clothes in the town hall .
There will be a lot of eats ,  drinks and entertainment .
Women interested in participating in the fashion show should register with the woman leader .
Farmers should be careful about what their animals eat in the dry season .
Because of feed poisoning ,  animals may go down and die suddenly .
There is a shortage of pasture for the cattle during the dry season .
During the dry season ,  it is expensive to feed livestock .
The municipality leaders have failed to plan for the district .
The district should be transparent in service provision .
The town clerk should show transparency when administering duties .
People should bring receipts to make follow-ups .
There is a lot of corruption in Arua district .
People involved in corruption will be charged according to the law .
People use government projects for their own gain .
The anti-corruption unit arrested several people .
People should uphold the ethics of public administration .
The district chairman of Arua is incompetent .
The government has provided income to the refugees to engage in Agricultural production .
The government should properly plan for the refugees .
The government has provided funds for accommodating the refugees .
Refugee leaders have been involved in the planning process .
Government has provided refugees with beans and cassava seeds to engage in Agricultural production .
Farmers have been equipped with skills and knowledge to manage farming activities .
The Ministry of Agriculture will verify and supply planting materials .
The government aims at improving the livelihoods of refugees .
Wetlands should not be destroyed .
Government has provided funds to support refugee farmers and vocational skills for the refugees .
The local people are optimistic about hosting the refugee communities .
The ministry of agriculture should provide refugees with the best seed varieties .
The refugees should engage in agriculture to get something to eat .
The government has provided ten kilograms of maize to each person .
The government should try to maintain the amount of food supply towards refugees .
Are you an orphan ?
The government needs to provide enough water for domestic use and agricultural purposes .
The government will provide farmers with drought-resistant crops .
Teachers in Arua lack the competence to provide education services .
Students in primary schools are not performing very well .
Teachers have failed to come up with the necessary mechanisms to improve education services .
Teachers equipped students with skills and knowledge .
People need to be educated about the significance of education .
Teachers should be committed to working to improve the quality of education .
The leaders informed teachers to ensure career guidance and lesson planning .
Leaders and school management should work together to achieve good performance .
Children should be well fed to be attentive in class .
Some schools failed to produce a single first grade .
The schools should involve parents and learners in the planning process .
The parents should directly get involved in the learner's performances .
Students should be sensitized about the significance of education in their lives .
The district officials look at providing enough food and quality education .
The district has transferred inconsistent teachers from the district .
The parliamentarian was charged with unlawful disappearance from police custody .
The parliamentarian was charged after being arrested .
Various people were arrested after stoning the presidential motorcade .
The police should handle citizens with care .
The policemen arrested the member of parliament .
The parliamentarian will be charged in the courts of law .
People were informed to provide security for the members of parliament .
The court should grant the parliamentarian a court bail .
The parliamentarian was charged and tried in Arua .
The parliamentarian pleaded not guilty before the chief magistrate's court .
The member of parliament was granted a non-cash bail of fifty million .
The prosecutor advocated for strict bail terms .
The judge adjourned the case to another date .
Arua taxi park will become irrelevant if there is consistency in shortage of power .
Taxi operators should create cooperative unions .
The deputy prime minister chaired the commissioning of Arua taxi park .
The government constructed Arua taxi park .
The government bought generators to increase power generation in the area .
The taxi park ,  however ,  depends on enough supply of electric power .
The people of Arua will have power problems for the next two years .
The taxi park will increase mobility in the transport business .
The taxi park will employ the people of Arua .
People will increase their cash inflow .
Arua taxi park is an ideal place for the market .
The government will construct three bridges in Arua .
Standing bridges will collapse at any time .
Some bridges were made of timber .
Uganda national roads authority will be in charge of the construction .
Bridge construction will take three years .
Uganda national roads authority has the veto powers in the construction of the bridges .
The construction company should work together with the roads authority .
The company will construct bridges with a lifespan of one hundred twenty years .
The authority gave the project a lifespan of three years .
Roads in Arua will be tarmacked .
Local people will provide labour for construction companies .
District leaders explained that construction should be effective and efficient .
There should be proper accountability for the project funds .
Many people lost their lives over the bridge .
The people were unable to transport food because the bridge collapsed .
People are excited about the construction of the new bridge .
Officials in Arua desire for the return of rhinos in Ajai game reserve .
There is poaching in the game parks .
Officials need rhinos to restore the image of Arua district .
The government has gazetted game parks and reserves to protect and keep wild animals .
The government has discouraged poaching in the country by putting up strict laws .
The district officials want to promote local tourism among the people .
The officials want to increase the local revenue in the district treasury .
The wildlife conservation quiz will take place at Arua public primary school .
The officials have sensitized people to conserve wildlife .
Uganda is gifted with lakes and rivers ,  forests and mountains .
The officials want to market the beautiful scenes of West Nile .
Uganda is gifted with several species in animals .
The president will be the guest of honour at the ceremony .
There will be free blood screening on that day .
Good quality roads were constructed in the area .
There is a dramatic change in the appearance of the town .
Solar street lights are cheaper to install and operate since they generate their own power .
It was the grand opening of the new taxi park .
The park is one of the new developments in the region .
The lorries will park outside the taxi park .
The delay in funds leads to inappropriate planning .
The district leader refuted the allegations against the city .
The park will have a big shopping mall .
The minister will be the guest of honour for the day .
Individuals have benefited from statehouse scholarships .
The two students scored first grade in the primary leaving examination .
Their parents couldn't afford to pay school fees for secondary school .
Children in rural areas face a lot of challenges in accessing education facilities .
Medical problems cause poor performance at school .
The mother of the boys was grateful for the opportunity given .
The parents cannot afford to pay school fees for the boy's secondary education .
The village football team lost to the visitor's team last weekend .
All the teams hold the sixth place in the table standings .
Proline football club is one of the best clubs in Uganda .
The football match ended in a draw .
An organization has confirmed to inject three million shillings into women's football .
It is the main national cup competition in football .
The team was eliminated in the third round .
The Ondupakara lost to Vipers during the cup finals .
The football team failed to reach the finals despite all efforts .
Vipers club will represent Uganda in the Africa cup competitions .
The teams are to play a loser's match tomorrow .
There are a lot of land grabbing cases in Uganda nowadays .
The piece of land is located near the airfield .
The old man wants the government to compensate him for the land it took .
We were not aware that part of our land belonged to the Airfield .
When a building is marked ,  it's an indication that it's to be demolished .
The government asked them to show proof of ownership of the land .
They have lived on this land since childhood .
The government has finalized plans to compensate people affected by the airport construction .
Their father played a role in the political history of Uganda .
He asked the government to at least take a few metres of the land .
We almost have nothing ,  and they want to take it from us .
The government chose this land as suitable for the location of the Airfield .
The land is a remembrance of the former president of our country .
The officials claim the land belongs to the government .
We didn't get any answers about the allegations from the police spokesperson .
The officer didn't reply even when we tried to reach him through text messages .
The number of children suffering from eye defects is on the rise .
The eye screening was conducted at one of the schools in the region .
Such allergies are very common in children .
Many children have minor eye problems .
The district leaders organized an election .
They are also educating parents on how to care for their children's eyes .
The teacher's who initiated the activity teach in those schools .
The organization helped in the fight against children disabilities .
Children with bad eyesight may be discriminated against in school .
Teachers will give extra care to children with these eye effects .
Children with eye problems struggle to keep up with class assignments .
The disability prevents the children from making use of some facilities .
During exams ,  the children were given a form for written language for the blind people .
The child has only one eye .
They are organizing to construct a dormitory for children with disabilities .
Government officials were arrested for diversion of funds .
The school headteacher was also arrested for misusing the school development funds .
Many of the cross examiner's actions were shocking and cruel .
Police are investigating the possible misuse of the money .
The funds were meant to improve infrastructure in the region .
Officials have collected evidence to prove the misuse of funds .
Inspectors went on to inspect the standards of the roads constructed .
The school headteacher and bursar were arrested on fraud allegations .
There were complaints around the town about the bad roads .
The demotion followed an investigation of neglect of duty at night .
The senior opposition leader was arrested while leading a march to opposition party headquarters .
The officers were attached to Arua police station .
They were demoted from their ranks .
The officer was accused of the negligence of his duties .
One of the officers was proved innocent by the disciplinary court .
They were found guilty of not providing security for the president .
They were supposed to give the president maximum protection .
They were all given a chance to appeal to the judge .
The president's car was stoned during campaigns .
Police used tear gas on the protesters .
There was a heavy deployment of police in different parts of the city .
Witness fails to testify in treason case after diarrhoea attack .
Different protection units were responsible for protecting the president's convoy .
The elected leaders and other government officials are responsible for protecting the president .
There is an increase in engineering education at higher institutions of learning .
Why do fresh graduates find challenges in getting engineering jobs ?
To become an engineer ,  you should have completed four years of engineering practice .
There is an ongoing program of keeping the city clean .
To become a registered engineer ,  you must have ten years of experience .
There are few engineers across the country .
You must pay a membership fee of thirty thousand Ugandan shillings while registering .
Students usually pursue engineering courses .
How can the younger generation be inspired ?
The market is under construction .
All people in society have an opinion about what is happening .
The human resource was mobilised ahead of time .
Elections usually involve violent acts .
When will by-elections be held ?
Police officers can be suspended from duty .
Officers should not neglect their duties .
Who is the commissioner of police ?
Police officers have to follow commands as given by their superiors .
Police officers that decline to take orders are punished .
The commander in the field is the one who controls the others .
How do police officers communicate while in the field ?
A crowd is a large number of people gathered together in a disorganised way .
Disappointments are very painful .
Police officers need to act professionally when executing their duties .
It is okay to stand firm at your decision .
Be mindful of other people's lives .
The police were deployed to calm the riot .
Is it true that cancer is incurable ?
Health services should be accessible to everyone .
What does the cancer machine do on the cancer patient ?
What do we find in the first aid kit ?
Cancer can affect different parts of the body .
Cancer can be treated .
What do medical engineers do ?
Doctors treat patients in the hospital .
Cancer patients visit cancer centres .
Private maternity wards are usually expensive .
What is our final plan ?
Of late ,  many people have cancer in Uganda .
Every district should have a referral hospital .
One can either be tested negative or positive for cancer .
How can we fight against cancer ?
Cancer patients need better treatment .
We need more hospitals that can treat cancer .
How many regions are found in Uganda ?
Leaders have the potential to transform their subordinates' lives .
Youths are encouraged to take up leadership positions .
Hotels are basically for accommodation .
Government has come up with programs to support the youth .
Youth leaders must strive to develop fellow youths .
Use every available opportunity .
Have the youths benefited from their leaders ?
What could be the hindrances to the future development of youths ?
Youths do not allow anyone to despise you .
Some youths are manipulated because they are naive .
Government programs should be taken seriously .
Information dissemination is to distribute information .
What is the role of youth leaders ?
Government programs are aimed at benefiting the public .
Water bodies support economic activities ,  like fishing .
What are the guidelines for fishers who work on the lakes in Uganda ?
The Albert Nile is really wide .
Wetlands and forests have been destroyed for settlement .
Water is a necessity .
Swamps should be reserved .
How many ports are on Lake Victoria ?
Have you ever toured around Lake Albert ?
What are some of the water resources in Uganda ?
In most cases ,  the chief guest must give a speech on the event .
Why is it commonly said that water is life ?
There are many rivers in Uganda .
Where do police officers take commands from ?
The president must be given protection .
Politicians are allowed to hold political campaigns .
Describe the importance of the church in the community .
The traffic department is concerned with the movement of cars on the road .
The president can visit anywhere he wants .
What does the inspector general do ?
What is the neglect of duty according to the police ?
Campaigns are sometimes chaotic .
It is not good to always disregard other people's opinion .
Politicians hold political rallies .
Why would a road be blocked ?
Police investigators are everywhere .
Are chaos events a concern to the police ?
The president travels in a convoy .
Most police officers stay in the barracks .
Time waits for no man .
The next football match shall be held in the stadium .
By the end of the second half of the game ,  we had won .
How is woodwork done ?
What benefit is the disciplinary court to the police ?
The police officer's disciplinary charges were dropped .
What does the field force unit do ?
In Ugandan law ,  one is innocent until proven guilty .
Why do police base their operations on assumptions ?
The president's convoy is heavily guarded .
He pleaded guilty for another offence .
Police operations can fail .
Commanders in police must give commands .
Officers need to be trained in detecting danger .
Regrets are unnecessary since they are of the past .
Suspects are brought before the court for cross-examination .
Who witnessed the stoning of the president's convoy ?
Some universities promote sports .
During the dry season ,  the sun was very hot .
It's so noisy outside .
How many goals were scored in that game ?
I am so frustrated with work .
Stop insulting me in public .
I was so disappointed with our performance .
Who was the last in your class ?
I enjoy playing football .
Who is our team leader ?
How much do windows cost ?
A football team is made of twelve players .
Did you have enough food ?
What is the market ?
Who is your former employee ?
What brand of car is the most expensive ?
Stop mistreating your child .
That is my casual dress .
He takes his job seriously .
Why do you fear the unknown ?
We need to promote gender equality in our communities .
We need a better solution for child abuse .
Which process do you follow to get a work permit ?
Who can give me a loan .  ?
Have you completed your homework ?
How much do you earn ?
I brush my teeth every day .
I don't like black colour .
Am having a game this afternoon .
We need to restore peace in northern Uganda .
The coach was disappointed with the match results .
Are you wearing shorts ?
Are you a football fan ?
How many players have injuries ?
January is the first month of the year .
What are you saying ?
I love you so much .
What should be included in a funeral program ?
I plan to get married next year .
What time is the burial ?
How many brothers do you have ?
Do you have faith in God ?
Send me a message on my phone .
Both the Bible and the Quran are holy books .
That song has how many verses ?
The bible says that wives should respect their husbands .
Do you read the bible ?
What is your relationship with the deceased ?
Muhammed was the last prophet ,  according to Islam .
Islam is the second-largest religion in Uganda .
Which book and verse are you reading from the bible ?
Why is drug abuse bad for your life ?
We must stop gender violence .
Prevention is better than cure .
How do we prevent the spread of malaria ?
What is the role played by Christians in the church's expansion ?
How much are clay bricks ?
Can you give me directions to your church ?
Pastors preach the gospel .
Don't forget to comb your hair .
What are you planning to do after retirement ?
What is the retirement age for the clergy ?
We need a project sponsor .
How old are you ?
Where did you come from ?
I use the left hand to write .
I am going back home .
How many senses do we have ?
Do you have my email address ?
When did you retire ?
I have a beautiful home .
It's not your fault that you got bad grades .
Which couple wedded on Sunday ?
Baganda girls kneel while greeting elders .
What is the responsibility of the father in the family ?
Where do you live ?
He was taken to the disciplinary committee .
Are you listening to music ?
How many rooms are in that house ?
Christians read the Holy Bible .
Can you sing the national anthem ?
We need building materials .
What is your daily routine ?
Sensitize the public about gender violence .
He reached to me for help .
What is the size of your septic tank ?
He failed the exams .
How do I connect my laptop to the internet ?
Water is a necessity of life .
Where can I park my car ?
The month of March has thirty-one days .
Do you have access to clean water ?
We need a new place where we can deposit the sewerage .
How many leave days do you have ?
Arua is a clean city .
There was an accident on Masaka road .
Many people died as a result of a car accident .
Drivers should not go over speed .
The roads have a lot of potholes .
The lorry needs to be repaired .
People shouldn't carry out mob justice .
More security guards were employed to improve security .
A thief attacked the security guard .
We should follow the rules and regulations .
There was a court session today .
Another court session will be conducted tomorrow .
The suspects denied everything .
The public should freely enjoy certain services .
We were told to list all corrupt officials .
The list of corrupt officials was published .
A new market is being constructed .
Construction started one year ago .
The construction was completed .
A new hospital is being built .
Many foods are sold in the market .
Power was on and off yesterday .
They installed solar systems .
The construction of the market is still ongoing .
The hospital needs more doctors .
Health workers should help patients .
The workers struck over salary issues .
His salary was increased .
Students should work hard for good grades .
The guest of honour gave an interesting speech .
Everyone contributes to the development of a community .
The education system needs to be upgraded .
They also discussed the solutions to the challenges school children face .
We need to work together .
The minister called upon us to unite and live harmoniously .
Awareness of public health is being done .
Gender-based violence is punishable .
Children need to be counselled .
Parents shouldn't mistreat their children .
There are vast cultures in the world .
Children should be sensitized about the dangers of homosexuality .
They were requested to submit a report .
Arua registered a high crime rate this month .
Children should respect their elders .
Parenthood is a big responsibility .
Prostitution should be prohibited .
There are many family disputes .
There were many accidents in Northern Uganda last month .
They expressed their dissatisfaction .
People should be sensitized about road safety to avoid accidents .
Water accidents are rare these days .
A new ferry was purchased today .
Many people use the ferry .
They requested the ferry to make more trips .
Water safety is a critical point of discussion .
The chairman said a water accident occurred today .
The ferry was overloaded .
More life jackets should be provided to users of water transport .
The church donated Life-saving equipment .
Children also need life jackets .
They were scared of using water transport .
Corrupt officers have been suspended .
We did not receive any money from him .
They were suspended for three months .
Corruption was highly condemned .
The funds were embezzled .
He was worried about the safety of the region .
They are working on a project to improve the safety of the region .
The residents requested for accountability .
The project was not supervised .
All participants were requested to account for the money they received .
Thieves shouldn't be let out of prison .
The leaders had a team-building workshop .
The funding was not enough for us to complete the project .
They apologized for the improper use of the grant they had received .
They were requested to return the money they had received .
We have not received any payment since last year .
Every expenditure was recorded .
He was arrested yesterday .
Child labour is punishable .
Children really like playing .
The graduation ceremony was held yesterday .
Parents were encouraged to pay schools fees in time .
The headteacher did not address the students .
The students' performance has improved .
Education should be affordable .
Children should attend all lessons while at school .
Children should be guided when making career choices .
The school was closed .
New job opportunities have been announced .
Parents have invested in educating their children .
Parents had a meeting to discuss their children's performance .
Parents sacrifice a lot to keep their children in school .
Children should visit their relatives .
Parents should look after all their children .
The problem of irregular power supply still exists in Uganda .
The constant power supply in a given area attracts investments .
What is the role of the ministry of energy in Uganda ?
Feedback helps us to evaluate the effectiveness of something .
What should be done to ensure a stable and reliable power supply in Uganda ?
Investors consider certain factors before investing .
Some tree species are used to make electric poles .
Poor quality poles can easily fall during stormy rains .
What role do members of parliament play ?
In what units is electricity measured ?
Dams are built across rivers or streams .
Why do we need the chief administrative officers ?
The inspectorate of government is in charge of eliminating corruption in public office .
The inspector general of government cancelled his transfer letter .
Who is in charge of government officials' transfers ?
The police investigations should not be interfered with .
Key witnesses are those that can give first-hand evidence of some event .
Most leaders have an immediate assistant that helps them in role execution .
An investigation is a systematic examination to prove that something actually happened .
He was arrested under allegations of fund mismanagement .
Some people hold false allegations on others .
They shall be departing from home in the evening .
Workers should avoid overly being absent from work .
Let go of things that do not take you forward .
Who is a colleague ?
Unity means we put aside our differences and work together .
Pray to God for anything .
Public officers serve the public at large .
Some areas fail to develop due to corrupt and bad leaders .
Why do people steal ?
The inspectorate of government in Uganda initiates investigations concerning public resources .
Under what conditions will a money transfer be cancelled ?
Why should a mobile money transfer be cancelled ?
Government officials can be transferred to any part of Uganda for work purposes .
What role does the deputy chief administrative officer play ?
How can we ensure the smooth flow of investigations ?
The police arrests wrongdoers .
Does arresting a criminal resolve anything ?
What time shall he depart from the village ?
Absenteeism could be a leading factor for poor performance .
Money disputes can be hard to amend .
On his retirement ,  he had to handover office to the new manager .
Let us work together to achieve our set goals .
How can a good reputation be restored ?
The government hires people to work on its behalf .
There is a lot of corruption going on in our country .
The festive season is a season to celebrate .
God is very gracious .
God loves everyone just the way they are .
On Christmas Day ,  we celebrate the birth of Jesus Christ .
Jesus Christ was born to save the world from its sins .
Families spend a lot on food and clothing during the festive season .
Family expenditures usually rise during the festive season .
Is it true that rumour-mongering is a form of corruption ?
Through reading scriptures ,  we get to know more about Jesus Christ .
How can one steal church money ?
How can you best define dubious ways ?
Auditors manage the auditing process .
Accountants can best manage money-related issues .
The church needs to save its money in the bank .
Money should be accounted for .
Keep your money safe .
Cash in hand can easily go missing .
What is written in an apology letter ?
What should be done to eradicate corruption in church ?
The Church has a different form of governance .
How can mere civilians steal guns from the Uganda People's Defence Force ?
Who is responsible for the lost guns ?
Murders and robberies cause insecurity in the community .
Security agencies also provide security to people .
Some people are peaceful and loving .
The public helps security in fighting crime .
A lot of items were sold during the trade show .
What is the need for curfew ?
Curfew was implemented to prevent the spread of coronavirus .
Thugs are criminals and are a threat to the community .
During the festive season ,  over five families were stolen in the area .
The police survey the village whenever the curfew time approaches .
Report any suspicious people or activities to the authorities .
What role is played by the permanent secretary ?
Investigations are ongoing about corruption in public offices .
Bees stay in beehives .
How can stolen funds be recovered ?
Key witnesses are very important in an investigation .
What is the appropriate action to be taken in this situation ?
Why should some letters be copied to other people ?
Listen to the advice given to you .
What causes people to abandon office ?
Unlawful actions are punishable by law .
The education sector requires funding to grow .
What happens at fundraising dinners ?
How much is an accounting course at the university ?
Poor child parenting has caused a lot of problems for society ?
Drug abuse is usually due to peer influence .
Education widens our knowledge on very many things .
The police did not attend the security meeting .
The spokesman's phone was unavailable .
The public is advised to follow the president's guidelines on Coronavirus .
Some people do not observe social distancing .
Transport was banned at border districts .
Nightguards in Northern Uganda use bow and arrow to provide security .
The residents captured the thief .
A resident shot one of the soldiers .
The police discovered the suspect's bow and arrow .
It is unclear why the suspect shot at the policeman .
Police are gathering more evidence against the suspect .
The community worked with police to capture the suspect .
The officer that was shot is now in good condition .
The officer was transferred to the nearby hospital .
The refugees were given food and shelter .
The community donated to the refugees living in the region .
Food was the major basic need provided to the refugees .
They donated to the most vulnerable teams .
The old are considered more vulnerable than others .
Farmer groups will benefit from the donations .
The farmer groups will receive agricultural support .
It rains during the planting season .
The refugees will receive rice .
The community thanked the donors for their support .
Peaceful donation encourages other groups to help the refugees .
The refugees said she now has food to feed her child .
A refugee said he will now be able to feed his family of six .
The refugee expressed his joy after receiving food .
More members are encouraged to donate to the refugees .
The refugees have been affected by the coronavirus .
The huge numbers make the refugee camp very vulnerable during coronavirus .
The donors will have to provide more than just the refugees' basic needs .
Selected women will receive sanitary towels .
The night guard shot a soldier .
The residents handed the member to the police .
The officer was shot on the head .
The police retrieved the weapon .
They are not sure why the man shot the policeman .
The community was appreciated for the good work done .
The wounded soldier is now out of danger .
The wounded soldier will go for a head scan .
The community member shot the policeman in the head .
He was shot while on curfew patrol .
The officer was referred to another hospital .
They were not sure of who shot the officer .
The shot soldier was not in critical condition .
They decided to take his injury seriously regardless of what it looked like .
The police are on ground to find out who shot the policeman .
He advised the community to take the curfew seriously .
The locals are advised to respect the curfew .
The police arrested the man who sells bows and arrows .
The security team checked the policeman's health status .
The suspect was taken to the police .
The community was advised to use bow and arrows for the right reasons .
A few coronavirus patients were discharged .
The patients were discharged from the hospital .
The patients are from another country .
The hospital is managing the coronavirus patients .
Some patients were discharged from the hospital .
Five of the patients were truck drivers .
Most coronavirus patients are from the community .
The number of patients will rise if not handled well .
Another patient was discharged today .
It is getting harder to treat patients .
There is not enough space to accommodate patients .
The nurses do not have coronavirus protective equipment .
The hospital confirmed that the released patients were now well .
The discharged patients will be followed up in case of any health changes .
The mayor requested the health facility to be kind to the patients .
Coronavirus patients were isolated .
The health team was commended for a job well done .
The government promised to support medics .
Successfully treated patients were discharged .
The government was requested to bail business owners on their debts .
They used up their capital during the coronavirus pandemic .
Business owners are requesting for tax waivers .
Several businesses have been affected by this coronavirus situation .
Businesses have made losses during the coronavirus pandemic .
The government should provide businesses with better coping methods in this coronavirus pandemic .
Business owners complained of the high bank interest rates .
Business owners don't have money to pay taxes .
Lack of business activities negatively affects the community .
The community requested for reduced electricity bills .
The government should listen to business owners to help reduce poverty levels .
The management should improve administration investigation .
The Church of Uganda owns the hospital .
Decisions will be made after consulting the bishops .
The staff struck because of unpaid salaries .
One person can not make decisions for the whole community .
The hospital structure has been revised .
Members have exaggerated hospital issues .
There are disagreements amongst the church leaders .
They started an investigation to help both parties involved .
There is a huge communication gap between the two parties .
Foreigners have offered support to the hospitals .
Increased staff will ensure service efficiency .
The hospital has not received foreign aid for a while now .
The hospital runs effectively despite the number of staff available .
Staff salaries should be revised .
The hospital staff was advised to be patient with the team .
The hospital staff requested for a salary raise .
The hospital is a non-profit making organization .
Eye patients were considered outcasts in the region .
The bed capacity of the hospital has increased .
The government offers annual support to the hospitals .
Cameras have been put in place to reduce the crime rate .
Cameras are being installed across the country .
They installed more cameras than they had originally planned .
The camera installation process started on Thursday .
The installed cameras are not working .
The cameras will monitor accidents and crimes .
The cameras were installed in trading centres .
The cameras will replace eyewitnesses .
The cameras will be used to trace vehicle number plates .
The installation of cameras will start in towns .
The member of parliament donated a tonne of maize .
They also donated hoes and maize seeds .
The seeds were handed directly to the farmers .
The funds received will be used in a fight against coronavirus .
Recent donations will be towards coronavirus .
The hospital received a computer to register patient records .
The community was requested to use the funds properly .
Some of the money will be given to the security forces .
The leader will use the money to aid his constituency during the coronavirus pandemic .
The leader used her money to fuel ambulances meant for use because of coronavirus .
The region leader bought seven ambulances .
Some leaders donated farm seeds and materials .
District members are not following the coronavirus guidelines .
The school was used to isolate coronavirus patients .
About fifty-one people have been isolated .
The quarantine centre has already reached its maximum .
About four more people have joined isolation .
The regional leaders strongly rejected the use of schools for coronavirus patients .
The patients will stay in their homes .
The quarantine centres are flooded with patients .
They should speed up the identification of coronavirus patients .
Suspected cases are monitored for fourteen days .
Schools should not be used as quarantine centres .
The government should get independent quarantine centres .
Coronavirus patients are being treated in a regional hospital .
Refugees are looking for ways to enter the country .
Refugees get involved in animal grazing and cross-border farming .
The member of parliament disagrees with the decisions made for his country .
He doesn't want to carry public funds .
Money meant for Coronavirus will be used for its exact purpose .
He promised to follow the rules backed by the law .
He returned the money to the parliament as requested by the speaker .
I will not follow an illegal directive by the president .
It is not legal to return the money we received .
He was thanked for returning the money to parliament .
He said he would rather take the money home instead of the parliament .
The community thanked him for returning the money .
It is only morally upright to return the money .
He said it was intelligent to return the Parliament's money .
The team was requested to return the money as soon as possible .
Only five people returned the money .
The donations received will be used to purchase agricultural products .
They donated food to the poor .
The task force agreed to buy food for poor people .
The team should receive agricultural produce from members of parliament .
They said that they did not receive enough food .
The money should be given to the task force .
What a declaration used for ?
The public attacked those that failed to return the money .
The task force managed to contain the spread of diseases in the district .
She handed over the twenty million shillings .
The leader said he was still planning to return the money .
The funds were provided to fight against coronavirus .
The money was handed over to the task force .
The money was used to fight coronavirus .
The court decided to take back the money .
The health sector will use the money .
The health sector will make great use of the money .
The health sectors need to face masks and gloves .
The district should spend money on quarantine centres .
Development partners are providing fuel to the ambulances .
Fuel is necessary if the ambulances should be on standby .
The task force was thanked for the great work done .
He brought the money back home .
The leaders were advised to be an example to their community .
The money will be used for coronavirus related issues .
They were condemned for disobeying presidential orders .
The incident started on Sunday morning .
They had gatherings despite being warned about coronavirus .
They were arrested for having a football match .
The youth wanted to grab a gun from the police officer .
The police released live bullets to the crowd .
They transferred him to another hospital .
They continued investigating the matter .
The youth were advised to remain calm and composed .
The police will arrest any disobedient youth .
One of the members died after the incident .
The body was recovered on a Monday morning .
He was accused of stealing a motorcycle .
Her son's death saddened her .
He was surprised by the death of his brother .
My brother is innocent ,  and it will be proven in courts of law .
He was lively before he was imprisoned .
He had bruises on his face but let us wait for the medical report .
The officials explained that the boy sustained injuries on his face .
The medical report will disclose what happened to the boy .
The officers will be arrested if the boy was tortured .
The family should follow legal procedures as they lay the boy to rest .
The district police commander accepted to follow up on the incident .
The police are waiting for the medical report from the doctor .
The boy's injuries were self-sustained .
The police should have protected him from himself .
People are recovering from coronavirus .
The patients will be deployed to the consulate .
Uganda had a task of ensuring their safety .
People have to stay in quarantine for fourteen days .
Coronavirus patients are responding well to the medicine .
People must observe the covid nineteen guidelines .
The government should not disclose the identity of coronavirus patients .
The hospitals in Arua have the capacity to handle covid nineteen patients .
The medical department and the people are working together to contain the virus .
The minister commended the health practitioners for the outstanding job they are doing .
People were worried that they might contact coronavirus .
Ugandans are testing positive of the global pandemic in West Nile .
The medical department should test all contacts of coronavirus patients .
The truck drivers are the major source of coronavirus in the country .
People should maintain law and order .
The priest was badly injured .
The accused denied the police charges .
The prosecutor had motives in the case .
The accused is of old age who cannot serve a prison sentence .
The judge almost failed to give a sentence because it was between priests .
There is no evidence to pin the defendant .
The state attorney was against granting the accused a court bail .
The defendant's lawyers filed for the court bail .
Defence lawyers explained that their client has a right to legal processes .
The priest is too old for a prison sentence .
The hospital has successfully treated coronavirus patients .
The district task force has intercepted all the positive cases in the district .
The task force has ensured that the positive cases are quarantined and treated .
The medical department and the taskforce have received immense support from the government .
The medical personnel have handled and contained coronavirus pandemic .
The minister explained that doctors are capable ,  committed ,  focused and experienced .
Health workers should have their salaries increased .
Health workers should remain dedicated because they have a big role to play .
The task force sensitized people to carry out social distancing .
The health workers have been cognizant and have handled the virus effectively .
We analyzed the patients and did everything so that they could recover .
The doctor commended the hospital workers for performing well .
Refugee leaders have been trained and equipped with skills to handle the virus .
The religious organisations have equipped people with skills to curb the virus .
People have been educated and trained to handle the virus in Arua .
The organisation informed refugees on how to curb the spread of the virus .
The government has encouraged social distancing ,  washing hands and putting on masks .
People should not touch their eyes ,  nose and mouth .
People have to stay focused if they are to defeat the pandemic .
People were equipped with knowledge about and how the virus can be discarded .
The information given to the people is based on the behaviour of the virus .
The district has put up hand washing terminals ,  provided masks and sanitizers .
People asked whether the task force will be effective .
The organisation established speakers to communicate with the people on the ground .
The organisation provided protective equipment to the people .
People have been encouraged to pass on the training and skills they possess .
People should be cognizant because the spread of the virus starts with them .
The district should provide enough water to facilitate handwashing exercise in the camp .
People should extend knowledge to people who are close to them .
More people are contracting the virus within the area .
The refugee camp leaders have established coronavirus guidelines for the refugees .
The organisation plans to educate all people in the community about the virus .
Refugees have been provided with food to eat in this pandemic .
The food was distributed because the refugees are poorly fed .
The organisation worked hand in hand with the government of Uganda .
The organisation was targeting vulnerable people .
The organisation has been providing relief aid to refugees for three years .
The organisation has fed not less than eight villages .
The organisation aims at providing better services to the refugees .
The refugees were excited .
The refugees were able to eat to their satisfaction .
The government provides enough food for refugees .
The government decreased the number of provisions for the refugees .
Some people hardly have enough food to eat .
People have thanked God and to God be the glory .
People have received food ,  health equipment ,  skills from the organisation .
People have nothing to eat .
The government should distribute enough food for the refugees .
The government should increase its budgetary allocation for the refugees .
The organisation wants to improve the welfare of the people .
The organisation acted when they saw the poor conditions prevailing around the people .
They do not want people to suffer from malnutrition .
The government will increase the number of food supplies for refugees .
The government should fill the food gap and provide enough facilities .
Journalists have been disbanded from the district meetings .
The district lacks a public relations department .
The district chairman downplayed the significance of the media in the crisis .
Newspapers are very informative .
What are some of the benefits of social media ?
Media has journalists that cover activities happening in the environment .
News reporters should not be subjective in their service delivery .
The media has greatly helped in extending awareness about coronavirus .
The public follows up information availed by the media .
What kind of meetings should journalists be invited to ?
Media is used as a faster way of extending information to the public .
There is a reason why some information is not put out to the public .
Journalists collect information from the public and issue it for public consumption .
How many media houses do we have in Uganda ?
Cities attract investments that could lead to development .
Districts in Uganda are comprised of municipalities and counties .
Cities attract developments like the construction of roads .
It is prestigious to have a city in your region .
Cities spearhead development in the regions .
In which part of Uganda is Arua district located ?
Any recognisable city must have power .
No one knows how the future shall be .
Cities are planned for by the city leaders .
Stakeholders are engaged in different sectors of their interest .
While making plans ,  various factors have to be put into consideration .
The public has to be sensitised on the purposes of the city establishment .
What must be included in a city structural plan ?
Through commercialisation ,  one can improve his or her standards of living .
Improved road network shall increase the efficiency of business operations .
International business relations are established through the import and export of goods .
How accessible is Arua city from Koboko district ?
What kind of activities takes place in downtown ?
University institutions provide education services to people .
Irregular electricity supply can greatly hinder development .
Electricity connection encourages investment .
Kampala is the capital city of Uganda .
Many people are employed in the industrial sector .
The government collects revenue from the public through taxes .
Industries consume a lot of electricity in operating the machinery .
How can the cost of business be reduced ?
Cities are usually highly populated .
We now have more than one city in Uganda .
A diocese is a district under the pastoral care of a bishop in the Christian church .
Employers should avail retirement packages to their employees .
A compound fracture is also known as an open fracture .
An incident is something that has occurred .
Why should one assault a fellow elder in public ?
People shade tears sometimes because of pain .
An assault is a criminal offence .
An assault is an act of inflicting physical harm on someone .
Police help in conflict resolution .
Priests usually stay near or within the church premises .
Priests are appointed and allocated a church to serve in .
Liberty is the freedom one has to do something .
One has a right to speak whenever they want .
News travels faster than you expect .
A witness is one with concrete evidence that actually something happened .
Being rebellious is not good .
The Bishop has authority over the priests and deacons .
Forgive and love one another .
Limited contacts with various people limit one's exposure to contracting diseases .
People from other countries are allowed to enter Uganda .
Cargo trucks carry and transport products .
Be mindful of whom you interact with .
A healthy life is worth more than money .
Cargo drivers need to ensure the safety of the goods they are transporting .
Treatment is available for infected people .
Testing confirms whether one is infected with a disease or not .
We can only overcome if we are one .
We can hardly achieve anything unless we work together .
Mobilisation can be done in different ways .
A task force is a unit especially organised for a task .
The public is urged to comply with the set lockdown guidelines .
Referral hospitals manage patients wellbeing .
One becomes a patient if they hold symptoms of a certain disease .
Cctv cameras help reinforce security in an area .
Donations should serve the required purpose .
What is the role of the office of prime minister in Uganda ?
Money is required in the effort of fighting against diseases .
Any government expenditure must be budgeted for .
Food was mainly given to the elderly ,  the disabled and pregnant women .
Which kinds of people are considered vulnerable in society ?
Very few boda boda riders have new motorcycles .
Jail is a place of confinement of people convicted of a crime .
Avoid misappropriation of funds .
Money serves very many purposes .
Religious leaders keep encouraging us to ensure transparency in all we do .
Public resources are accounted for .
People cannot live without food .
Money must be accounted for .
A supplementary budget is passed by parliament .
A national supplementary budget is passed by parliament .
How many referral hospitals do we have in Uganda ?
What are some of the symptoms of coronavirus disease ?
The elderly still serve a purpose in the community .
Everyone contributed according to their capacity .
Exile is when one is barred from their country for political purposes .
Use every available opportunity to get to what you want .
It is very hard to meet with the president of the country .
Special people make donations to charity organisations .
Anyone is free to donate .
Donations can be of any form .
One good turn deserves another .
It is not very easy is to meet with the president .
We donate for a particular cause .
Why should I support the government ?
God cannot curse people .
You do not have to have much ,  to give .
Enormous is used to mean huge .
Families must be united .
Institutions have been used as quarantine centres .
The cathedral and the diocesan offices are usually in the same premises .
Respect other people's decisions .
The police intervene in anything that threatens the peace of society .
Patients are quarantined for health purposes .
Forceful taking of things is a sign of disrespect .
Seek permission from rightful owners .
Nursing schools train medical personnel .
Interviews can be done via a telephone call .
Urgent matters usually arise pressure .
Challenges faced can be resolved .
The task force group was split up .
An appeal should be put in writing .
People do not easily welcome change .
Poor quality products cannot last long on the market .
Be faithful in all you do .
It is essential to keep records .
Poor quality products rarely perform as expected .
Your accountable to everything that you do .
To retaliate is to give back .
Employees are representatives of the organisation .
How can one be transparent ?
Government money is often embezzled .
How can leaders manage the coronavirus situation ?
What is the role of the military ?
There is an initial stage for every process .
In the meeting ,  the task force was encouraged to work harder .
Why should anyone seek cheap popularity ?
Veterinary relates to the treatment of farm and domestic animals .
Animals also need to be kept healthy .
Planting seeds is one way of preserving the environment .
Water and alcohol-based sanitizers are used in the prevention of coronavirus .
The veterinary association is comprised of veterinary doctors .
Why are there very many refugees in Uganda ?
You can hold a conversation via the telephone .
Care and conserve the environment .
Anyone can celebrate anything .
The veterinary office shall be responsible for treating all animals in the village .
Social media platforms help reach a wider network of people .
International contributions are welcome .
Advocates legally operate under the law .
What were the president's directives this time round ?
Our organisation contributed a million-dollar towards the fight against corona .
Be honest and transparent ,  please .
Everyone contributes what they can .
Leaders contributed money towards the hospital construction .
How can we enhance economic development ?
Some decisions were reached at by the committee .
Treasurers are trusted with money .
His family members urged him to stop smoking .
Coronavirus affects smokers more .
What is the function of the respiratory system in the body ?
Smokers usually end up with rotten lungs .
School children are warned against smoking .
A person with low immunity can easily be infected with diseases .
Smokers should be mindful of their health .
Lungs help us in breathings .
The colonialists introduced tobacco production in Uganda .
How much does a tobacco cigarette cost ?
Some people start smoking due to peer influence .
The standard operating procedures were set to control the spread of coronavirus .
The health minister demanded a health report .
Tobacco smoke weakens our lungs .
You should stop smoking cigarettes in public places .
The needy need food .
Man has to eat food to survive .
What is a community ?
Appreciate others for their support .
Journalists create a dialogue by asking questions to the interviewee .
Who are the right beneficiaries for food ?
Support one another in the community .
Donations usually target the needy people .
Updates validate the available information .
People lose lives every day .
Over the years he has suffered from a heart attack .
Bodabodas can also be used to transport patients .
Most referral hospitals are government hospitals .
The lockdown restrictions made transport difficult .
How can one access ambulance services ?
Why do ambulances arrive late ?
Time management should be taken seriously .
Wheelchairs are often used by the lame .
The response is a form of feedback .
What is the role of health centre management ?
Ambulances are found at health centres .
Ambulances pick and take patients to the hospital .
The district health officer authorises ambulance services at the district .
Ambulance services involve bureaucratic processes at the district .
Some patients have problems moving to hospitals .
Every patient is supposed to go to referral hospitals with a medical attendant .
The ambulance is unreliable .
The nurse is worried about the situation of the patients .
The nurse provided some first aid to the patient .
The patient was given food to gain strength .
The patient should be taken to a better hospital .
The relatives will strive and take their patient to another hospital .
The patient got medical treatment from the referral hospital .
The district officials were unhappy with the help of the nurse towards the patient .
The district leaders were irritated because the act shows their incapability .
The task force has failed to efficiently and effectively plan for the district .
The people do not have hope in the leadership at the district .
The man died in hospital .
She did everything to save her life .
Health workers will not be intimidated because their duty is to provide health services .
Non-government organisations have been forced to participate in containing the virus .
The district lacks funds do facilitate service provision .
Organisations which help the district will be rewarded while those who fail will be penalized .
The district received aid at the district level .
The district acquired protective materials for Covid nineteen .
The district and the organisation have got a standing relationship .
The district received soap which will help in facilitating hand washing .
The district needs people to work together and contain the virus .
The district called upon all stakeholders to help in handling the virus .
The district explained why health workers need to be supported .
The district will ensure proper distribution ,  allocation and accountability .
The health workers have obtained the protective equipment used in treating patients .
The district needs to establish ambulance services in the area .
The district has to improve service delivery at the district .
The district has to mobilize and inform people about the spread of covid nineteen .
The police should be brought into play to enforce the covid nineteen guidelines .
The district should deploy more officers to arrest people who do not follow the guidelines .
People are at risk of contracting the virus .
The Christians are still conducting prayers and are not afraid of the virus .
People are not concerned about the existence of the coronavirus .
Some people are still engaging in public gatherings .
The district should inform people about the dangers of coronavirus .
People should have respect for their lives and those of others .
The people should engage in activities that control the spread of the virus .
The people who did not heed the presidential directives were warned .
Everyone should follow the covid nineteen guidelines .
Anyone who does not respect the guidelines will be arrested .
The religious leaders are not above the law and should follow the health guidelines .
Arua diocese heed to the guidelines and the church activities were suspended .
The police have failed to enforce the coronavirus guidelines effectively .
The district and police should communicate to the people before they take action .
The police have started arresting people who have not followed the established procedures .
People are more concerned about their businesses and not their lives .
Leaders have not sensitized and mobilised people enough .
The police have confiscated property of people who have failed to obey the directives .
People will be forced to obey the covid nineteen directives .
People who are giving out inaccurate information about the virus will be arrested .
The hospital has limited its accessibility to only specific people .
People want to help their friends who need support .
The hospital management does not want people to congest in the hospital wards .
No one is allowed in the hospital premises without proper hand washing and sanitizing .
The hospital should limit the number of visitors in the hospital wards .
The hospital has put forward various guidelines to combat the virus .
No one is allowed to deliver food personally for admitted patients .
The ministry of health directed all hospitals to restrict the entry of people .
The ministry wanted to prevent hospitals from harbouring the disease .
All hospitals are in emergencies .
The hospitals will no longer provide health services for simple illnesses .
Patients who recover quickly are discharged to create space in the wards .
Some people lost their lives as they tried to break out of prison .
The police are still searching for ten other inmates who escaped .
The security at the prison was lax .
Some prisoners wanted to runway from coronavirus .
The police will make sure that the remaining prisoners are recaptured .
The prisoners are living in poor conditions .
Prisoners were discontented .
The prisoners could no longer endure the congestion in prison .
The patron of the escapees remained behind .
The Uganda prison service heed to the presidential directives .
The Uganda Prison service should recruit more security officers .
Christian based organisations have also rendered support to the district .
The Christian organisation established a handwashing point at the orphanage .
The health officer explained that they are ready to battle with the virus .
The municipal council has ensured that hand washing terminals are all over the place .
The market management has been directed to display sanitizers to control the virus .
People were told to embrace handwashing ,  sanitizing and social distancing .
Local organisations are increasing on the number of handwashing terminals in the area .
The people should be ready for the virus before it reaches the district .
The market management will work with the people to facilitate safety in the market .
The prison authorities identified the master planner of the prison escape .
A convict of life imprisonment was the architect of the escape plan .
He convinced prisoners that they needed to do something about their unfair situation .
There were many security gaps at the prison .
The three prisoners have been charged with murder .
Some prisoners refused to escape .
The prison force is still searching surrounding places to find the escapees .
The prison force has joined hands with the community to search for escaped prisoners .
The prisoners took advantage of the police's negligence and escape .
How many coronavirus cases are confirmed in Uganda ?
The director of human rights is suing the police for violation laws .
Why violating human rights .
A journalist is advised to wear protective gears when covering stories .
Coronavirus is a pandemic .
What are the duties of a journalist ?
Why do you want a job in procurement ?
How much do you earn as a journalist ?
What does the news anchor do ?
What are the necessities of life ?
Is coronavirus disease curable ?
You have a good voice .
How many people who have died of coronavirus ?
We have entry exams tomorrow .
The hospital does not have emergency rooms .
He was fired from the police with immediate effect .
The ministry of health prohibits massive gatherings .
Coronavirus has killed more people this year than any other disease .
Public transport is not allowed during the lockdown .
What are chronic diseases ?
The hospital has many coronavirus patients .
What health facilities do you have ?
What are the signs of high blood pressure ?
What is the hospital visiting hours ?
Wear a mask to prevent the spread of the coronavirus .
What treatment can be given to coronavirus patient ?
How can I apply for the scholarship ?
What is capital punishment ?
Prevention is better than cure against coronavirus .
What is the recovery time for coronavirus ?
He tested positive with coronavirus .
We have to quarantine coronavirus patients .
He was taken to hospital for treatment .
Are coronavirus patients responding well to the treatment ?
How many coronavirus deaths recorded as of today ?
The police are enforcing the laws .
Public gathering increases the spread of coronavirus .
Journalists work in the media .
We need to ensure the rule of law in this nation .
Report any wrongdoing to the police .
Who qualifies for a police bond ?
What offences are heard in the supreme court
You need to write a statement at the police station .
I need a new cell phone .
Who are the suspects in this case ?
What are some of the presidential directives ?
Washing hands is mandatory in the fight against the coronavirus .
Many people have been infected with the coronavirus .
Make youths buy street food .
What has led to the strike in your area ?
That letter is addressed to street vendors .
We are in the departmental meeting .
No street vendors are allowed to do their business on the roadside .
Write an apology letter to the manager .
Is there space in the market for rent ?
Street vendors sell their products on the sides .
What is the gap between the poor and the rich ?
How can we increase our revenue ?
What is the name of that street ?
Street vendors sell fake products .
We have some misunderstandings are mongs us .
I was denied a work permit .
Vendors are to be relocated to a new place .
Why are you getting involved in their business ?
The lawyer is cross-examining the witness .
Businesses have been affected by the power outage .
Who is the owner of that hotel ?
Why are you disappointed ?
You deserve better .
How do I verify my account ?
What is the name of that Island ?
He failed to deliver on time .
I have a sneaking suspicion they will do well .
What are your biggest failures in life ?
How does lack of electricity affect the economy ?
We need to establish more industries in Uganda .
Who is the mayor of Kampala ?
How much electricity does Uganda produce ?
Who is the largest consumer of coffee in Uganda ?
When was operation wealth creation program started ?
What mobile network are you using ?
When will the bidding take place ?
What are ongoing promotions ?
We don't have enough power supply at the hospital .
How much money was allocated to the task force ?
Ministry of health is ensuring that standard operating procedures are followed .
What is the estimated budget ?
Washing hands is one way to prevent coronavirus .
Human resource is interviewing the candidate now .
Surveillance cameras have been put in place .
We have a report on how we can prevent coronavirus .
Malaria kills more people than other diseases .
Many people are infected with the disease .
No movements are allowed during the curfew time .
How can we fight coronavirus ?
What is your cultural background ?
What foods don't you eat ?
How is coronavirus spread from one person to another ?
We need to do tests in the laboratory .
We only have one laboratory in the hospital .
Your test results are still in the laboratory .
The doctor said they are still investigating the cause of the disease .
How to prevent kidney failure
How much money do you pay for health services ?
We need more equipment in the laboratory .
What is costing in the accounting
Minister of Health is inspecting hospitals .
How can patients complaints be reduced ?
We need to work together as a team .
Do you have any evidence against him ?
Do not trust people .
Take those chemicals to the laboratory .
What is your complaint ?
Should the coronavirus patients be isolated in hospitals ?
How do you spell apologetics ?
She confessed her sins to the priest .
Sorry for the loss of your loved one .
How to conduct an internal investigation ?
He promised never to leave me .
What are some of your fears ?
I worked for ten years without resting .
Why are you scared ?
How long should oneself quarantine ?
When is the news update ?
You need to be hopeful .
Which car are you going with ?
What time have you set your alarm ?
What is the nature of your work ?
Is the patient showing any signs of coronavirus .
What is the normal body temperature ?
Which room have you booked ?
Where are you coming from ?
What are some of the signs of coronavirus ?
Older people may be severely affected by virus .
Uganda has reported its first case of coronavirus .
Report any coronavirus suspects to the nearest health centre .
We can pump water from the River Nile .
Which dam is on River Nile ?
Do you have any food supplements ?
Falls on River Nile attract tourists in Uganda .
Which rivers are flowing towards river Nile ?
That car is so expensive .
Have you carried out the feasibility study ?
Stop encroaching on the wetland .
How are monitoring and evaluation done ?
Girls have monthly periods .
The budget is read every financial year .
Local defence unity has restored peace in your region .
Everyone needs water for drinking ,  cooking ,  washing and bathing .
How many litres of water are in that tank ?
We have to fight against corruption in Uganda .
Which media company are you working for ?
The electoral commission is preparing election next year .
Which commodities are priced in dollars ?
What is considered bribery ?
We have the right to access information .
You shouldn't be disappointed by the court ruling .
Which prison was he taken too ?
We have a press conference today .
Journalists are not allowed to record court hearings .
What does the law say about ignorance ?
All those seeking justice should go to court .
Don't be intimidated by what you don't know .
We can only get justice in the courts of law .
Which book are you reading next ?
Power belongs to the people .
I am a citizen of Uganda .
The rescue team is on its way .
Whose land is this ?
What causes land grabbing ?
You need to take care of your children .
How many families were displaced ?
Why is revenge bad ?
You need to come back home .
We need to beef up the security in the village .
He was remanded ten years in prison .
Which animals are on your farm ?
What's the size of your farmland ?
The police have managed to arrest the leader of the rebel group .
We should promote peace and harmony in the community .
I am staying with my family .
A new political party has been launched .
How can I be transformed by the renewing of my mind ?
Who is an entrepreneur ?
How much is the registration fee ?
Stop wasting time explaining yourself to others .
The success of a project should be measured by its results .
Many government projects fail as a result of poor management .
He provided a set of rules and regulations for accounting .
Farmers' groups will be exempted from paying taxes .
He will be able to make smart decisions with his money .
He was arrested for swindling group funds .
It requires teamwork for effective coordination .
Each district will be notified how much money it will be receiving .
These institutions have adopted ways to prevent the spread of viral diseases .
Discrimination affects the well being and mental health of people .
Government is aiming at improving health care for the public .
The three days meeting ended yesterday on the seventh of November .
It is to close the gap of new infections to women and girls .
People with this viral disease live longer nowadays .
It's always good to socialize with people suffering from this disease .
Sex work is high among the youth in the slums of Kampala .
The number of people living with the disease has increased and don't access treatment .
Some health workers don't have care for their patients .
Health workers are empowered to provide health services appropriate to all people .
Various organizations have come up to help to stop the spread of this disease .
The organization is providing free treatment and care of people with this viral disease .
They are mobilizing the community with testing and counselling .
Traditional birth attendants were banned in Uganda ,  but they continue to practice .
The president did not attend the ceremony .
The vice president represented the president at the ceremony .
The minister donated two ambulances to the district .
People were disappointed when the guest of honour didn't turn up .
His individual presence would mean a lot to the community .
They needed financial support to run the project .
They expected a special token from the guest of honour .
They will meet to discuss the construction of the new stadium .
She won her first individual title by winning the junior race last year .
The president promised to contribute to the project personally .
His absence tarnished his image in the community .
He is expected to visit them at any time .
Load shedding will increase due to the decrease in water levels of Lake Victoria .
The low levels of water have greatly affected the power generation .
The power plant was established to develop industrialization in that area .
The loading shedding will take a period of two weeks .
Dams will be built to raise the water levels and create a lake for storing water .
They have suffered financial loss because of loading shedding .
The district leaders are looking for a solution to load shedding .
There is a meeting tomorrow to lay strategies of restoring electricity in their area .
Some leaders don't do what they are assigned to do .
The district leaders wrote a letter to the power company expressing their dissatisfaction .
They cannot tolerate the load shedding any more .
We are not getting any response from the power suppliers .
The minister donated three ambulances to the district .
The district leaders received the ambulance with joy .
It is costly to access the health facilities in our area .
The community highly appreciated her for the donation .
In the case of referral ,  the patient is to cater to the fuel cost .
It is good for a mother to plan for her pregnancy .
The district leader thanked her for having a kind and giving heart .
She gave back to the community as a token of appreciation for voting her .
Leaders should go back on the ground and know the challenges their people are facing .
Every day many women and girls die from preventable causes of pregnancy and childbirth .
We appreciate you for the strong woman you are .
Trust is something that two people in a relationship can build together .
Some leaders forget about the people who voted them to be where they are .
He renovated all the roads in his constituency .
Because of her kind heart ,  she felt her people needed the ambulance .
He revealed that ambulances are among the items exempted from taxes .
Selling off one vehicle was the only alternative she had .
Electrification helps to reduce poverty .
As a woman ,  I know the suffering mothers go through while giving birth .
Many pregnant mothers have to walk for long distances to access health facility .
The ambulances were distributed to different hospitals in the district .
The celebration will take place at the district headquarters .
This day will be celebrated annually .
Many weddings have been rescheduled or even cancelled due to the pandemic .
Through engineering ,  many people are employed .
When natural habitats are destroyed ,  the environment is degraded .
Climate change and water scarcity is also another problem faced by engineers .
Religious leaders are working hand in hand in the development of our village .
I want to know what it takes to be an engineer ?
Social gathering has been restricted to stop the spread of coronavirus .
In cases where public safety is concerned ,  it requires an engineer to be licensed .
The leaders have organised a training for all the engineers in the community .
Every engineer is responsible for any careless work done .
The community stands to gain a lot by exposing young girls to engineering .
Teachers should teach students how to embrace engineering and not fear it .
Street lights make people feel safe at night .
That jungle is a home for criminals and drug dealers .
It makes the streets feel safer and more secure ,  especially for women .
Street lights allow traders to operate for longer hours .
Smoke from the local lamps affects human health .
Thieves are likely to choose a place that looks like there is no security .
When the criminals are arrested ,  they bribe the police to release them .
The district doesn't have money for the maintenance of the security lights .
Bulbs with shorter lifespan need to be often replaced .
Five men have been arrested over theft of street lights .
He advised that it's less costly to use solar street lights .
The district put in funds for the installation of lights ,  but they were not purchased .
Very soon ,  the lights will begin to function .
Solar lights were installed but the batteries were stolen at night .
Our town has the best roads in the whole town .
Women are free to participate in the politics of the country .
The committee is calling upon members to clear their contribution in time .
The women leaders in the district already fulfilled their pledges .
The district traders' association has provided all the chairs required for the function .
Today's function has attracted more guests compared to the one of last year .
Women have been trained in many income-generating activities throughout the year .
Some of the big shops in the city are owned by women .
The image of women has improved compared to the past .
Women have financially supported their husbands in developing their families .
Women's day is celebrated every year in March across the country .
The committee has organized for women with disabilities .
Women planted over one tree in last year's celebrations .
Beekeeping is a profitable business in Uganda .
Educational seminars help learners to pass well .
Government schools in our area performed well last year .
Mathematics was poorly done in the whole district .
The educational officer thanked teachers for the good work done .
Some schools were so disappointed with bad results .
No single candidate scored four in our village this year .
Girls have performed better than boys this year .
The best school in the district got forty-four aggregates .
The educational officer has advised teachers to set weekly tests for better results .
Some headteachers have been demoted due to poor performance .
When he gets good grades ,  the headteacher is highly praised for his efforts .
Research shows that children learn very fast when taught in their mother language .
Teachers in village schools are fond of dodging work without genuine reasons .
Poor payment of fees by parents badly affects learners' results .
The school with the best performance last year declined this year .
The school has maintained its position in the district for five years .
Because of the poor performance ,  parents are forced to change their children schools .
Lack of enough qualified teachers in the district leads to poor performance .
Church founded schools have a feeding plan for their children .
Three of the cabinet ministers come from our district .
One of the topmost former leaders of this country came from our village .
One of the main leisure activities for men in Uganda is drinking alcohol .
Many learners' miss exams due to parents' failure to pay school fees .
Children with bad peer groups have higher chances of failing academically .
Parents should ensure that children do their homework every day .
Proper upbringing of a child yields good results .
Some students were caught and punished for entering a disco hall .
Some entertainment centres have been closed down for allowing young girls in .
Girls in rural areas engage in sexual acts at an early age .
Schools keep learners busy with homework throughout the weekend .
Some stubborn students escape from school before time .
Schools find it hard to control spoilt children .
I would rather put my child in a boarding school than a day .
Parents need to be very strict on the movements of their children .
Poor methods can lead to learner's failure .
It is awful to send children to school without food .
The officer sensitized parents on the dangers of learning on an empty stomach .
My sister got low grades last term due to poor marking .
A good teacher makes learning interesting to students .
Some schools have a big number of pupils and small classrooms .
The management has built houses for all teachers in school .
In that year the school recorded the best performance ever .
The football federation registers new teams every season .
It requires a lot of money to sponsor a team in a league .
The football federation gave instructions to the new team yesterday .
Many youths have benefited from football talent in Uganda .
All football clubs have supporters all over the country .
The football federation picks talented players from all corners of the country .
Some people are always left behind in developmental matters in their communities .
The club goalkeeper was falsely accused of defiling a fifteen-year-old girl .
The region needs a stadium to host friendly matches as a way of practising .
The club supporters are happy with the performance of their players .
Uganda has more than ten football clubs in the national league .
He called upon club supporters to keep the spirit high .
Big companies support football sport in the country year after year .
The minister promised more government support to sports development in the country .
It is the best football team in the district .
Clubs also get good players from national school competitions .
These clubs employ many other people apart from players .
Teams also face challenges in running their activities throughout the year .
The district sports office has given out football Jerseys to all youth clubs .
He urged teams to take good care of themselves throughout the competition .
Players are called upon to portray a good image in the community .
Big football clubs usually buy good players from small ones .
A good player had to be physically and mentally fit at all times .
Our village chairperson has organised a football tournament starting next week .
The mayor gave the team a token of appreciation for winning the match yesterday .
The organization brings food items that the community cannot access .
He will provide support with financial support to the team .
A big tent was raised for the guests who will watch the football match .
The locust invasion is the biggest in Uganda and Kenya in twenty years .
The minister urged the community not to chase away these locusts .
Since the locusts move randomly ,  it's easy to control them .
Large swarms of locusts have invaded our country .
They invaded from the eastern side of the country .
Female locusts lay many eggs at a time .
Young locust is the most dangerous of all the pests .
Government has released forty million shillings to help in controlling the spread of locusts .
There is a lack of trust in Ugandan leadership .
The ministry reported the invasion of locusts .
My father is an alcoholic .
My father beats my mother .
What is your passion ?
There are several Muslim families in Uganda .
Muslims are in their fasting period .
The mosque was renovated .
Many Muslims go for prayers at Kibuli mosque .
We doubt everything in his report .
The number of Muslims is increasing .
They arrested whoever was striking .
A new mosque is being built .
They had some disagreements .
Muslims are forming associations to help the needy .
Boreholes were constructed during my regime .
Leaders advised their constituencies to live in harmony .
They demanded accountability of their taxes .
There are many mosques in Uganda .
They have been so silent since yesterday .
The mosque is being renovated .
He told us to repent .
They were unhappy with the new administration .
The leaders had training in good leadership .
Muslims had a religious workshop .
Two team members fought after the football match .
She was rewarded as the best netballer .
The football match is scheduled for tomorrow .
I did not watch the match .
The football match was very competitive .
The rugby match was exciting .
We have a soccer match tomorrow .
The winners of the league will be announced tomorrow .
A new coach was appointed for our football team .
They train for the match daily .
The game fixtures have not been made yet .
New players have been signed into the team .
Gender-based violence is increasing in Uganda .
People do not really know the dangers of gender-based violence .
Steps are being taken to prevent gender-based violence .
Her behaviour has changed a lot .
Women should stand up for their rights .
They shared their experiences .
He campaigned in very few villages .
He beat up his wife while he was drunk .
Husbands should respect their wives .
We need to end gender-based violence .
The crime rate in Uganda has reduced .
There are many causes of gender-based violence .
Her husband terribly beat her up .
Many people turned up for the sports gala .
It has been long since I last fought .
Football is a very popular sport .
People should exploit their talents .
There is no requirement for one to join the school football team .
We do not know the guest of honour .
Sick people should not play football .
Talents can be exploited to generate income .
His daughter dropped out of school and joined the national netball team .
My hobby is playing football .
People are still hopeful .
They disclosed the project budget .
They also offered some equipment to be used for the project .
The project aims to provide clean and affordable water .
Very many people are living below the poverty line .
They achieved all the project's objectives .
The Bishop urged us to pray about all situations .
The Bishop was grateful to all church leaders .
We were encouraged to spread the word of God .
He belongs to a very prayerful family .
They move long distances to access water .
We have had no access to water since yesterday .
Houses in wetlands have poorly constructed toilets .
All water sources are very far away from our house .
A borehole should be constructed near our house .
Many women grow vegetables .
They requested the district engineer to facilitate construction of a borehole .
The project is being monitored .
Water is a basic need of life .
We should not be selfish .
We should be grateful to God for the rain .
Plants should be irrigated .
He loaded the jerry cans onto his bicycle .
So many animals died last night .
They shot him before robbing him .
There is a high crime rate in Uganda .
The murderers are still unknown .
He was shot dead .
The deceased was taken for a postmortem .
The murder case should be investigated .
We do not know why he was murdered .
A policeman was shot dead .
The guard's gun was stolen .
He was arrested for misconduct during the campaign .
His phone was also stolen .
All the theft cases were reported to the police .
People are investigating a lot in agriculture .
People are practising mixed farming .
Coffee is grown across the country .
People are venturing into fisheries these days .
Different initiatives have been made to promote agriculture .
The chairman addressed the community members .
Volunteering is good practice .
People with money engage in agricultural activities .
The government has provided seeds to the farmers .
The ministry should ensure a ready market for agricultural produce .
Some farmers should specialise in crops while others in animals .
The district should effectively plan for agricultural activities in the area .
The district needs farmers who can plant cassava .
Farmers should work together to improve productivity .
The district needs to provide transport facilities to the extension workers .
The ministry has divided the farmers into maize ,  coffee ,  rice and cassava growers .
Most universities in Uganda are producing fake engineers .
Engineers should work with global organisations to enhance their skills .
Engineers organised a conference to strategize on how to improve the field .
Laboratories in schools are not well facilitated .
Majority of the people working on Karuma dam are expatriates .
Engineers are essential in technological advancement .
The number of engineers under registration is limited .
There are few female engineers in the country .
The institute focuses on improving technology and advancing project management .
Students with extraordinary projects were rewarded with one thousand pounds .
The government has enhanced practical skills by establishing technical institutes .
The leaders should make sure that people are equipped with the necessary skills .
Technical and vocational education has been introduced in several districts in Uganda .
Polygamy has encouraged the spread of acquired immune deficiency syndrome .
Youths have many partners which ease the spread of the disease .
Youths do not use protection when they engage in sex .
The number of youths who have contracted the disease increases every month .
Youths should be informed about the dangers of the human immune virus .
People should go for medical check-ups .
The health officers have extended testing and counselling services to the people .
The virus is mostly found in areas with many people .
The district should distribute condoms to the people .
Human immune virus cases are mostly found in fishers .
There is prostitution among girls in the area .
Parents should take very good care of their children .
Most of the people who contracted the virus are drunkards .
People do not use protection when drunk .
People have not been sensitized about the dangers of the virus .
People are negligent and are not concerned about the existence of the virus .
Early marriages have brought about teenage pregnancies .
Our church celebrated its silver jubilee three years back .
The prevalent rate of the virus is nearly four per cent in West Nile .
The clean energy project has provided people with employment opportunities .
People have sold energy products which have increased their income levels .
People have acquired skills through engaging in the manufacture of stoves .
The district has reduced the level of respiratory cases .
People reduced fuel expenditure .
People replaced firewood with the solar lighting system .
Some people could not afford solar lighting systems and energy-saving stoves .
The solar system is very expensive for people to buy .
The solar system can easily be affected by the rats .
The product registered limited sales because the leaders were not involved .
Most of the solar systems were not purchased by the people .
People lack the income to go for entertainment activities .
There was violence in the Arua municipality by-election .
The security in the village was increased .
People love comedy and fun .
The consistent jokes from the comedians entertained people .
Comedy was done in the local language .
The hotel managers promised to organise comedy shows frequently .
People were many ,  and others watched from the projector .
People enjoyed themselves and got drunk .
The parliament has lost one of its comrades .
The member of parliament was aged seventy-six when he died .
The member of parliament missed the wedding ceremony .
The members of parliament supported ideas that could solve people's problems .
The constitution of the Republic of Uganda is not respected in the country .
Uganda has a poor health system .
The hospitals lack drugs to treat people .
People should work together despite their political affiliations .
People should always be united .
People should always agree to disagree because they will outlive the political parties .
People should be patriotic and enhance the country's development .
The parliamentarian was a father of five .
Refugees were trained to cook food .
People will be able to work in restaurants .
Chefs taught these people .
Food is prepared under the supervision of the chef .
The event aimed at promoting culture .
The celebrations took place in the refugee camps .
South Sudan refugees prepared the meals .
People should always promote their culture .
The refugees were able to promote the culture .
A new school was officially opened in the area .
Refugees have been able to engage in agricultural activities despite the existing challenges .
The government-sponsored some refugee girls to study home economics and catering .
The government will provide skills to refugee girls and agricultural equipment to refugee farmers .
The training program was cancelled due to political instabilities .
Young girls get money from making doughnuts ,  cakes and chapati .
These girls have undertaken internship programs in hotels .
The girls get money and support their siblings in school .
She got a passion for catering from selling mandazi .
Boys should be trained so that they engage in commercial activities .
Primary schools are being introduced in the area .
Women were equipped with skills to make sanitary pads .
The member of parliament organised the training program .
Young girls lacked pads to manage menstrual periods .
Women should be provided with leadership training opportunities .
Through baking ,  women can increase their income .
An international organization is training women to make their own sanitary pads .
What is gender justice ?
Women who are trained in turn train others who benefit from the skills .
Handbags can easily be made out of beads .
The leader thanked the women for participating actively in training .
We need money to secure more building materials .
Craft is a very good activity that should be taught to women and children .
Through the project ,  I gained tailoring skills which have helped me earn more income .
Money should always be set aside to help women .
This years' national football league was interrupted by the pandemic .
Uganda football federation signed a new coach for the national team .
Some players were not included in the current national team due to indiscipline .
The club supporters are not happy with the team's current performance .
Some Ugandan footballers play for big clubs in other countries .
The federation needs to construct more football grounds which fit international standards .
Sports journalists play a great role in promoting football in Uganda .
Our football team participated in the African cup last year .
Football is the most supported sport in the country .
One of Uganda's pioneer football journalists died last month .
Our football club has won the district tournament of the year .
The federation of football has awarded the best players of the season .
New football clubs in the league have few supporters compared to old ones .
To be a successful footballer ,  you need to be talented and disciplined .
The coach promised to lead the club to victory in the forthcoming season .
Our team has lost all three games played so far .
He used the official car for his own personal needs .
He went into hiding after reportedly embezzling funds .
In what urgent situations can police enter my home ?
His office was responsible for supplying leguminous seeds to groups in the community .
The group leaders claim to have made payments in the cashier's office .
The cashier disappeared with the company money worth five hundred Ugandan shillings .
The beehive suppliers complained that they had not been paid .
He persuaded the group leaders to make cash payments in his office .
Some of the villages never received the seeds ,  yet they made payments .
There is no reason why bee suppliers have not received the money .
The cash office was handed over to the accountant .
He was supposed to present a hand over-report .
Police don't tolerate people who exploit others in society .
The company opened a case against him .
Their search was unfruitful .
He will be highly charged for embezzlement of public money .
The police have opened a general enquiry file to investigate the allegations .
The journalists tried to reach him ,  but all his phone numbers were off .
Piggybank can be a great way to teach children the importance of saving .
They were trained in banking and saving .
She advised women to open up bank accounts as a way of saving money .
Most people in rural areas save their money using small wooden boxes .
Banks keep people's money more safely than keeping it in the house .
Some banks offer lower interest rates to their customers .
She called for unity among the women groups .
There is a group of women who earn money from cake baking .
Most Ugandan women spend a lot of money on cosmetics .
Farming is very profitable in rural areas .
In rural areas ,  women still don't have access to the financial system .
The church has established a hospital on one of its land in town .
Among all churches in Uganda ,  the catholic church has more land .
Over two hundred children were baptised by the bishop last Sunday .
He was arrested for stealing church land .
Centenary bank is a project for catholic church .
The government contributed money during the renovation of the Uganda martyrs' shrine .
The church founded the only vocational school in the district .
Children learn many things from Sunday school activities .
Educated people are more successful than uneducated ones .
Majority of church founded schools are academic giants in the country .
Killers deserve to be imprisoned for the rest of their lives .
Lawyers apply many skills to win cases .
Retired judges were called back due to the many pending cases in the ministry .
The president appointed a new chief justice .
The president appointed a new chief justice this year .
Some lawyers are too corrupt in their work .
Majority of Ugandans are ignorant about their constitutional rights .
The rich always oppress the poor in many legal cases .
In some villages ,  criminal cases are settled by the elders .
His case hearing has been postponed until next week .
The law safeguards wives in family sharing after divorce .
He was proved innocent by the court after rape allegations .
The minister of Justice always calls upon people to respect their rights .
Village courts handle small cases and forward the big ones to higher authorities .
Health care in the Northern region has improved compared to previous years .
Hospitals in big towns have very good reproductive health equipment for women .
Many children die at birth because of poor health services .
Since the baby was premature ,  she held him close to her chest .
It stabilizes the baby's heart rate .
Newborn babies cannot regulate body temperature on their own .
It builds a bond between the mother and the premature baby .
A mother should wash hands before handling a newborn baby .
Babies born at eight months are considered premature .
She was surprised that her eight-month baby survived death .
The pregnant mother did not know she was carrying twins .
She didn't get enough medical attention ,  and one of her twin babies died .
It is advisable to take a premature baby for a check-up every two weeks .
Keep your premature baby healthy during flu season .
Are you pregnant ?
What spreads malaria ?
She gave birth to a baby boy .
We need to help women who get miscarriages .
Women are advised to give birth in hospitals .
I have been admitted to the hospital .
Many people have died in that accident .
Who killed the bus driver ?
Where did the accident take place ?
A bus carries sixty passengers .
He was caught stealing the money .
Where is the bus driver ?
Who burned the bus to ashes ?
I run every morning .
Am laying on my bed .
Are you sure he said that ?
What is your phone number ?
Where did you get those injuries from ?
Who destroyed our property ?
Road users are not following traffic lights ?
I am going for a job interview .
Am going through so much pain .
Where can we get a grader that can pull this grader ?
There is a lot of traffic in the evenings .
What do you spend your money on ?
Why do fathers neglect their responsibilities ?
What is poor parenting ?
What causes conflicts at home ?
You should work ,  stop complaining .
What is the importance of a father in a child's life ?
What factors contribute to gender-based violence in communities ?
Too much alcohol is bad for your health .
You should confess your sins to God ,  not Revland .
Am marrying a second wife .
What are the dangers of drug abuse ?
We need to plant more churches in the community .
They congregated to praise and worship God .
We are collecting money to build the church .
Are you a worship team leader ?
It is good to give in the house of the Lord ,  the Bishop said .
What are you selling ?
How much are you donating to vulnerable people ?
You should give generously .
We have fundraising next Sunday .
How are you going to fundraise money for the church roof ?
The church is under renovation .
The organizers are mismanaging the church funds .
Who is a missionary ?
We must improve the working conditions of the employees .
Who is the employee of the month ?
How can we bridge the gap between the rich and the poor ?
How do we fight corruption ?
We need a detailed report on the coronavirus .
Have you submitted the course work ?
Human resource is recruiting new members to fill up the vacant positions in the company .
Which jobs were advertised in the newspapers ?
What is the punishment for forgery ?
How do the banks show support to the local businesses ?
Young districts need more staff members .
How is the head of the department ?
Supervision is the act of supervising someone or something .
Muslims are celebrating Eid .
What was the cause of chaos between Muslims and the police ?
The police have fired teargas to disperse the Muslims .
No one is allowed in the mosque .
How did you get those injuries ?
Muslims are fighting among themselves because they have factions .
Which Muslims are opposing the new Shiek ?
The mosque is closed at this time .
Violent Muslims have been charged with inciting violence .
Eyewitnesses blamed the police for sparking chaos .
The police have invaded the mosque .
Muslims fast in the month of Ramadan .
The police are fighting with the Muslims .
How can I learn the Quran ?
What wrangles are there between Muslim leaders ?
Who is the leader of the Uganda Muslim supreme council ?
Are you a citizen of Uganda ?
The university staff is professional .
How many graduates have jobs so far ?
What is the mission of the company ?
That professor teaches physics at the university .
He applied to work at the university .
How much is the university tuition ?
Are in the bible college .
What is the relationship between the University and the community ?
The courts are solving the land conflict between the university and the villagers .
No entry in the classroom without a mask .
Idi Amin Dada was the president of Uganda for eight years .
How did Idi Amin come to power ?
Is there a military hospital in the region ?
Military health facilities treat security personnel .
What do military and veterans hospitals do ?
Hospitals are essential in the community .
Constructions require money to take place .
So many times ,  we hold memories of the dead .
At what age do soldiers retire from military work ?
You can easily contact your beloved ones via phone .
The more the available health centres ,  the better the health services .
Can a health centre be upgraded to a hospital ?
Soldiers too need health services .
It is okay to have a different opinion on something .
What role is played by the ministry of defence in Uganda ?
What benefit are army shops to military officers ?
The budget is beneficial in the planning process .
Which countries are in the European Union ?
A communications officer is in charge of communication .
International aid is of great benefit to Ugandans .
How does society benefit from a local civil society organisation ?
Both refugees and host communities receive equal services .
What strategies have been laid to improve access to clean water ?
What are some of the water-borne diseases ?
Most refugees stay in temporary homes like tents .
What are the basic needs of man ?
Temporary shelters are not permanent .
Impactful projects should be permanent .
Resilience is the ability to recover from difficulties .
Children need education and protection .
He takes his children to the playground to play every weekend .
Traumatised children are usually emotionally disturbed .
There are very many vulnerable people in society .
Women are encouraged to reserve their dignity .
Some projects transform the lives of people .
The government annually spends a lot on landslides .
Motorcyclists are road users .
Conflict resolution reinforces unity .
Government assets must be responsibly managed .
How best can we prevent motorcycle theft ?
What do sub-county chiefs do ?
Resolutions are usually for good .
Orders must be implemented .
Electorates are people entitled to vote .
He regretted his actions at the party .
He successfully cooperated with other leaders .
A financial year lasts for a period of twelve months .
Violence among youths must stop .
Students graduate from university on completion of their courses .
Violence is an immoral act .
University graduates should influence the environment they live in .
Let us learn to tolerate one another's character .
Qualifications are earned from education .
There are various optional courses for students to take at University .
Graduates can suitably compete in the job market .
Most professors lecture at Universities .
The future is what lies ahead of us .
The University has infrastructures like lecture halls .
The University staff comprises lecturers .
He encouraged the staff to work towards achieving the organisation's objectives .
Universities hold graduations every academic year .
Every year the University enrols new students .
What happens during the press briefing ?
She pursued her degree in bachelor of science in information systems .
Information is further studied at higher institutions of learning .
A few students graduated with first class in the previous academic year .
Congratulations are to those that have achieved something .
What are some of the life skills ?
Very many graduates lack jobs in Uganda .
The national council for higher education regulates institutions of higher learning .
After your bachelor's degree ,  you can pursue a master's degree .
How can we promote quality education ?
If you perform poorly ,  you may not be admitted at the University .
What should one do to be globally competitive ?
Career guidance guides students in career choices .
A lot of opportunities are available in the business .
Muslims follow their Islamic teaching .
The police commonly use teargas .
Why should the police fire live bullets in people ?
A mosque is a place of worship for the Muslims .
Soldiers and police officers get injured during their operations .
Some physical fights can lead to death .
Sheikhs are religious leaders in the Islamic faith .
Prayer time is time for God .
Chaos usually incites violence among people .
Can police sparkle chaos ?
The army officers and police provide security .
In the Islamic faith ,  one cannot enter the mosque with shoes on .
Muslims are usually alleged to violent acts .
The Quran is the holy book for Muslims .
Why regret after doing something ?
The Uganda Muslim Supreme Council owns some assets .
What does the act of professionalism involve ?
We shall be going for a field tour anytime from now ?
How can one act professional ?
What is the mission of our company ?
Morality and ethics are very important in society .
The public ought to realise the role of institutions in their midst .
The University provides education services .
A lot of youths are joining the University for further studies .
What do students study in college ?
The University has a good relationship with the community .
The village elders can solve misunderstandings .
The village leader promised to work hand in hand with the University .
Government is constructing a new referral hospital in the district .
The hospital will be giving health services to all the people in the community .
All veterans are entitled to access health care .
It is the biggest hospital in the whole region with all the health facilities .
The hospital will give free health services to retired soldiers .
The Mayor has donated fifty bags of cement for the construction of the hospital .
The ministry of defence will provide all health supplies and equipment to the hospital .
The hospital will be built in remembrance of the fallen president of Uganda .
There is a hardware shop in town selling hardware materials at a lower price .
The hospital will benefit the entire community .
The military hospital will reduce the overcrowding of patients in health centres .
It is better to improve medical equipment in existing health centres .
Some hospitals display patients' names next to the doors of the rooms they occupy .
The ministry of defence is in the process of building a national military hospital .
Hospital name shouldn't be an issue to debate about .
The region has only one existing army shop .
The money budgeted is not enough to open up another army shop .
The partnership with international investors to help refugees has ended .
It was announced on Friday last week .
The community benefited from this organization .
These organizations help in caring for child development in the refugee camps .
Communities hosting refugees have benefited from these organizations .
Twenty boreholes were constructed in the region .
They helped in the improvement of sanitation in refugee camps .
Good sanitation prevents diseases .
The money came in at a time when they needed it .
They collect water from iron sheets during the rainy seasons .
Women and girls are always advised to move in groups to avoid abuse .
Refugees need to settle in their new homes .
These organizations protect children's rights to receive an education .
Parents are advised to make their children feel safe .
People with disabilities need specialized services .
They promote women empowerment .
People need electricity in their homes .
The government needs more funds to facilitate the refugees .
The man who stole the motorcycle was handed over to the police .
There is a disagreement between the leaders .
Government vehicles are for official use only .
The motorcycle was stolen when he was deep asleep .
They will be deducting their salary every month as a payment plan .
The two are government employees .
The district leader failed to act by their wish .
Some of the councillors are happy about the decision made .
School inspectors use motorcycles to supervise schools .
Thugs sell motorcycles to spare parts shops .
He promised to fulfil the pledge he made .
Security guards are responsible for the security of the office .
The minister read the speech at the graduation ceremony .
Violence against women should not be tolerated .
His bad performance resulted from the gangs he joined at the University .
We should love and respect each other .
The University is open to all students around the world .
Performance of male students was better than female students .
Our father encouraged us during hard work .
He has encouraged students to enrol for science degree programs .
Creativity is a skill that employers need desperately .
A school should be set up in a suitable atmosphere .
Does teacher absenteeism affect the student's performance ?
The University needs more funding .
The University is to pass out over fifty graduates .
The first lady of Uganda will be the guest of honour .
Fifty students are graduating today .
Eight female students are graduating today .
The students are graduating with first-class degrees .
Female students excelled in their studies .
He should find ways of thinking and solving problems .
Graduates should become job creators ,  not job seekers .
They have introduced new courses this year .
The university will introduce more new courses in the future .
Education helps to keep society stable .
Good grades can get you into the University .
Children are motivated to work hard .
Some University students change courses in the first semester .
Restaurants make a lot of money from University students .
Uganda beat South Sudan in the African qualification game this week .
Dennis Masinde Onyango is the goalkeeper and captain of the national football team .
Our village football team reached the finals in last year's Christmas cup .
A team gets three points for every win in the national football league .
Halid Lwaliwa scored the winning goal for Uganda against Southern Sudan this Thursday .
Uganda will face Rwanda for the African cup qualification game early next year .
The minister postponed the national schools' football games until next year .
Uganda has many football academics that help to develop talent .
An injury affects a player's performance in a football game .
An injury can end a player's football career .
Fans are not allowed to watch games in the stadium due to the pandemic .
A certain team was suspended from the national league for bribing a referee .
The media council has awarded the best sports journalist of the year .
Higher institutes of learning take part in sports games annually .
Some football clubs in the country lack standard playgrounds for hosting games .
Clubs signed new players to improve on the weak areas come next season .
It is very rare for church leaders to be attacked by criminals .
The bishop requested the police inspector to deploy more officers in the area .
Some religious leaders mislead people these days .
There are many religious leaders in our country .
Some church leaders were sent to court .
The meeting was cancelled .
They did not want to cancel the meeting .
We do not know why the meeting was cancelled .
They did not lose any match .
The church deployed more security officers .
The chairman cancelled the meeting .
The issue has not been resolved yet .
The judge has not given his judgement yet .
They were advised to reconcile .
They failed to resolve the dispute .
They were told to harmonize .
The dispute was not resolved .
He was not informed about the cancellation of the meeting .
The Bishop had been invited to celebrate mass .
Priests should be respectful .
He was found guilty of defamation .
He reported the thieves to the police .
The parish priest was welcomed .
This is a praise and worship moment .
The players celebrated having won the football match .
They lost a football match .
They won the trophy on the sports day .
They did not lose any football match .
The football team was unhappy .
They have never lost any match .
The players need to practice more often before any match .
We got a new football coach .
The new team members were welcomed .
We do not know the winner of the match .
We have a new goalkeeper .
A lot of money was allocated to building schools .
The budgeting process commenced .
It was a national conference .
Many people have resorted to farming .
More tour guides were recruited .
More schools are going to be built .
They recruited more workers .
There are several broken marriages in Uganda .
Rural areas need more doctors .
The budget was read during the conference .
Many people turned up at the conference .
I do not know the chairman's name .
The pupils performed poorly .
A new pit latrine was constructed .
The chairman introduces himself .
I was told about her challenges .
We do not know who the beneficiaries are .
People should avoid drinking alcohol .
The education officer welcomed the students back to school .
The disabled should be considered while making development plans .
The results of the match are still unknown .
We have a football match today .
The sports gala will be held in Gulu .
They lost the match .
They expected to win the match .
They did not expect to lose the match .
The next match is tomorrow .
The referee was unfair .
They scored during the penalty .
The team was disorganized throughout the match .
They were very happy to win the match .
They did not score any goal .
They qualified for the finals of the league .
One of the players got injured during the match .
He is the striker of the school team .
We are encouraged to educate our children .
Many parents paid school fees for their children .
Free education has been availed .
Northern Uganda has changed a lot since Uganda got Independence .
It rained today morning .
Her son dropped out of school .
They requested to be given a second chance .
New workers have been recruited .
They called for project proposals .
There is an age limit on people who should contest for leadership positions .
The army training was completed .
The president urged the youth to join the army .
They shot someone dead .
There are many police officers in Kampala .
They did not vote .
He promised to sue the chairman .
The chairman had rigged votes .
People were very violent .
The protest was due to high taxes .
Teachers gave their students company during the trip .
They deployed security personnel in preparation for the party .
The market is no longer operational .
Their boss appreciated the workers .
He visited Uganda for the first time .
Many markets have been constructed .
That is the biggest market in Uganda .
The government is greatly indebted .
The market has not had electricity for three days .
They resorted to using solar energy .
There is tight security at the market .
The newly elected Kadhi will unite the Muslims in Arua .
Religion is for peace .
Religion teaches us how to behave in society .
The outgoing Kadhi was absent at the handover ceremony .
The outgoing Kadhi did not want to hand over the office .
The police were present to maintain law and order .
Moslems are excited and hopeful about the new leadership .
The newly elected Kadhi speaks both English and Arabic .
Moslems believe that God chose the new Kadhi .
The Muslims gave their full support to the newly elected Kadhi .
The Islamic University in Uganda will be a training centre for the Muslim leaders .
Muslims should not involve security agencies when they are solving their problems .
The resident district commissioner was transferred to Kiryandongo .
The date for installing the new Kadhi is not yet clear .
The Arua Muslim district comprises the district of Arua and Maracha .
Headteachers in refugee-hosting communities were equipped with management skills .
The three hundred teachers received sponsorships from the government .
The training involves headteachers ,  teachers and parents .
The training instilled elements of patriotism in teachers and also brought pupils together .
Headteachers acquired financial management skills .
Teachers should work together and implement plans for the development of schools .
The school directors should not get involved in the management of school funds .
People should follow legal procedures when handling conflicts .
Handouts will be given to participants so that they can have a future reference .
One hundred twenty-four people were trained .
There are conflicts between the teachers ,  parents and the headteachers .
Some plants grow without human intervention .
Onduparaka lost to Kampala capital city authority by two goals to nothing .
Kampala capital city authority football club scored from set-pieces .
Onduparaka football club has a poor defence .
Kampala capital city authority was the better team on the day .
Onduparaka wasted many goal scoring opportunities .
Onduparaka football club lost their first game of the season .
Onduparaka had not conceded a single goal until they faced Kampala Capital City Authority .
Onduparaka played without their captain .
Kampala capital city authority was motivated to win the game .
Kampala capital city authority football players get so many yellow cards .
There is competition among the Kampala capital city players .
Some players for Onduparaka had their debut matches .
The government installed a pico power project in Arua district .
The project provides people with a clean source of power .
This power project was the first of its kind in West Nile .
The government will install different power projects across the country .
The government aims at establishing a reliable power supply across Uganda .
The pico project generates small amounts of power .
The project has provided employment opportunities for the people of Arua .
Some residents provided land on which the project will be established .
The power station was not set up on falls because they rely on rainwater .
The technicians inspected Okabi stream for the establishment of the power project .
The stream had consistent waters which were even used for irrigation purposes .
The stream could be able to generate electric power for the whole village .
The technicians proposed an installation of a power generation centre on the stream .
Local people mobilised local resources for the project .
People paid five thousand shillings for energy-saving bulbs .
People were excited about acquiring electric power .
People are living in grass-thatched houses with electric power .
People had light in their homes and phone charging terminals .
The government built a permanent house for the resident who offered his land .
Some people turned against the power project because the resident was promised a house .
People were arrested for stealing power cables .
People started vandalising property on the power station .
People failed to steal the heavy batteries on the power station .
The government provided the solar system as an alternative energy source .
The pico power project turned residents against each other .
The power station is now covered with extensive natural vegetation .
People are now engaging in agricultural activities .
Onduparakas new signing promised to play his best football for the club .
The signing is a former Kampala capital city authority skipper .
The signing asserted that Onduparaka is not afraid of KCCA .
Onduparaka has some of the best players in the league .
Onduparaka looks forward to winning the game .
Onduparaka desperately needs to get the three points off the Kasasiro boys .
Onduparaka is not a defensive-minded team but an attacking team .
Onduparaka is unbeaten at the Green Light Stadium .
Kampala capital city authority has the squad depth in the league .
Onduparaka needs to work hard when they are out of possession .
Onduparaka is a very good team when they have possession .
Onduparaka should not allow Kampala capital city authority to play their game .
Players are supposed to work together on the pitch to get results .
Onduparaka will play the game against Kasasiro boys without their skipper .
Kampala capital city authority football club did not hold any press conference .
Four candidates in Arua sat their Uganda Certificate of Examinations from outside .
The candidates were suspended from school after displaying their high levels of indiscipline .
The four candidates master minded violence at school towards the end of the second term .
The students are supposed to be at school during examination hours .
The school cannot tolerate lawbreakers .
Students protested because the management failed to refund money for the failed trip .
The students were registered with the Uganda National Examinations Board .
The school allowed them to sit for the examinations .
The government has not provided enough support for the schools .
The school management should establish strict rules and regulations .
Parents asserted that students should behave well in society .
The suspension of these students will be an example for the rest .
The school lost its first headteacher in the first term .
Fifty-five candidates were registered with the Uganda National Examinations Board .
Many people want to serve in the Local defence unit ,  but they lack qualification .
The recruitment process was smooth and successful .
How did they learn to play basketball ?
Which team won the Uganda Premier League last season ?
Which team won the game ?
Name the body parts .
What is the process to get drivers' licenses ?
Who is the top scorer this season ?
Are you driving an automatic car ?
Our captain missed the game due to injury .
We have a bad fixture .
Who is the owner of Onduparaka football club ?
Do you read newspapers ?
When is the football season starting ?
Which formation will Onduparaka be using in today's game ?
Include my name on the payment list .
Why is the experienced player starting on the bench ?
Epidemics usually spread fast .
Do we have Ebola in Uganda ?
What are contagious diseases ?
We need to install surveillance cameras .
What is the scope of your business ?
Immunization is done to control epidemics .
How many people have died of Ebola ?
How can the government support local businesses ?
The Ebola patient was taken for treatment .
Government services do not reach remote communities .
What is the risk assessment ?
We have a surveillance system in place .
We need a technical person for this job .
Which diseases are caused by bacteria ?
That lady is so attractive .
What are the most competitive teams in the Uganda premier league ?
Is this your first game in the Uganda premier league ?
Who is the most popular football fan in Uganda ?
Most men in Uganda like watching football .
A coach holds a press conference a day before the game .
Players with serious injuries do not play football .
All players have a medical record of their health .
The team with the most wins takes the trophy .
Players wear different numbers for quick identification .
He scored a hat trick in the game .
The coach is blamed for the team's poor performance .
Football is a game played in Uganda .
Coach manages the team .
It takes teamwork to achieve a goal .
Big companies sponsor football clubs .
Which authority regulates betting companies in Uganda ?
Can you share with me your wedding budget ?
You dump the garbage at the collection points .
What is the population of Uganda ?
What kind of garbage disposal do I need ?
I can afford to buy that house .
You should come and visit me .
The phone number is registered in my names .
Before the ceremony started ,  we sang the national anthem .
Ugandans are friendly people .
Uganda is a pearl of Africa .
Trucks are used to bring water to refugee camps .
We need to change leadership .
Villagers fetch water from the well .
Do you know your purpose in life ?
How can we promote hygiene in the refugee camps ?
We are going to tour around Lake Victoria .
Fish live in water .
How do I get a job in construction ?
How sustainability programs create value ?
I cannot graduate without this project .
The nature of my job requires me to work daily .
Refugees stay in camps .
Rural communities don't have access to clean water .
What is the source of the river Nile ?
Who will be supervising the exams ?
We need funds to construct a bridge .
When should I drink boiled water ?
How much does it cost to have the land surveyed ?
Insecurity hinders development .
How much revenue was collected from the market ?
How can we improve service delivery to our customers ?
The police spokesperson appealed to the communities not to take the law into their hands .
How do I set a reminder on my phone ?
Kazinga channel links Lake Edward and Lake George .
He was diagnosed with high blood pressure .
How can I solve this problem ?
No matter what comes my way ,  I am going to be the best .
Who started the riot ?
Do you have a map of Kampala ?
We don't have enough funds ,  and a lot is pending on this project .
The management made the decision .
I have a date tonight .
How much work do you have ?
Who is in charge of the investigation ?
You must pay back that money .
Why is money from the Uganda road fund missing ?
Companies should secure more time to complete construction projects .
The construction will be complete the following year in February .
The public was warned against tarnishing the teacher's name .
Teachers greatly influence student's characters .
Teachers face very many challenges in the schools they teach .
Teachers are advised to stay away from loans .
All non-graduate teachers will be laid off .
Parents are advised to respect school teachers .
Teacher's retirement packages should be paid in time .
Poor school infrastructure hinders student performance in schools .
Teachers are responsible for better student performance .
Headteachers are approved only if they are degree holders .
Only five teachers qualified for headteacher positions .
Teachers complain about inadequate salaries .
The teachers should be able to work under minimum supervision .
Students are advised to keep good sanitation .
Teachers play an important role in child development .
Parents also play an important role in the student's school performance .
About five hundred teachers are hired in secondary schools .
The students are also members of the regional football club .
The central region won the football match .
He was voted the most valuable player of the match .
It is safe to not be very expectant during matches .
Many players did not qualify to participate in the tournament .
Only one team can win the match .
He failed to use his tactics to win the match .
They received a prize of thirty-five million Ugandan shillings .
Sixteen provinces participated in the competition .
Fans have spearheaded the fundraising campaign .
The fans will mobilize resources for the team .
All fans will contribute ten thousand shillings .
Transportation of the club is very costly .
The fans raised two million shillings only .
The club impressed it's fans when it won the match .
We are advised to protect our culture's heritage .
The constitution will promote unity among people .
A working document was developed to promote constitution activities .
Clan leaders will become constitutional leaders .
They pose the umbrella as their group sign .
Diversity makes unity a little complicated .
The leader portrayed a different picture to the public .
He was in power for five years .
They will hold a chief installation activity .
Members interested in becoming candidates should register as soon as possible .
Constitutions should be used to promote peace .
The constitution will not divide any groups of people .
The church was established before the year two thousand .
Churches are essential for university development .
The church is meant to fight any community shortcomings .
Prayer is believed to move mountains .
The preachings are based on Jesus' Bible teachings .
The church was built alongside the university .
Four more university branches were built in other country regions .
All university branches have the same company teachings .
There are challenges involved in the church expansions in other regions .
The students participated in community cleaning .
They prayed with the different church congregations .
The heavy rains blew off the roof .
She was found in a collapsed school building during the heavy rains .
The victim's father was in another district during the incident time .
The wind blew off the roof during heavy rains .
The administration failed to renovate the buildings .
Books and textbooks were destroyed during the rains .
The victim was transferred to a nearby hospital .
The school will hold a stakeholders meeting to renovate the building .
The victim's family will be relocated as soon as possible .
The staff quarters need immediate attention because they are in poor condition .
The government will take over school construction .
One student was left disabled after the floods .
The national budget did not provide enough funds for school construction .
Funds should be specifically allocated to build permanent school structures .
The school celebrated seventy-five years of existence .
The school started as a vocational college .
The celebration started with a school match around the town .
The teacher said he was grateful to have a job at the school .
They have accomplished various achievements over the years .
School construction will start as soon as funds arrive .
The teacher requested that the funds are properly planned for .
Collective responsibility will help improve students' academic performance .
The headteacher requested parents to take children to his school .
The school requested that funds were provided to improve infrastructure .
The young students were motivated to join the school .
Special thanks were given to the old boys for their school contribution .
The church advised the public to work hard and improve on the education sector .
The leaders all provided keynotes during their address to the public .
The community was worried about declining student performance in school .
Students were advised to stay away from drugs and alcohol .
Students were also told to stay away from bad company .
School headteachers should promote unity with other schools in the region .
The schools should also work in hand with the churches .
Peaceful study environments should promote improved student performance .
The region has some of the best schools in the country .
The school team won the sports tournament .
The goalkeeper helped with the three points win for the school team .
The team has a lot of work to do if they plan on winning the game .
Handicap is a sports game .
The government should establish public grazing areas for local people .
Tobacco cultivation causes deforestation .
Valuable species of trees are cut down .
The district is at risk of soil erosion and degradation .
There are land wrangles between the colonialists and the residents .
Land used for growing eucalyptus trees can be used for growing food crops .
Leaders should have a good relationship with their people .
Good quality work done speaks louder than the academic papers .
The minister addressed the issue in a two-day meeting .
The local leaders are supposed to reach out to the people on the ground .
People should be given skills to help them get jobs of their own .
A meeting was held discussing ways of reaching the people on the ground .
The investor promised to transform the remote area into an industrial park .
Uganda has a good relationship with its neighbouring countries .
All countries in Africa should come together as one .
There are a lot of business activities in the border districts .
He was happy that many people in business turned up for the meeting .
The organization was thanked for educating peasants .
Women were introduced to different skills .
The prime minister will chair the three days meeting .
It is a long process to access these loans .
Teachers have joined these groups to support their saving and borrowing money .
The government has invested two hundred million shillings in the teacher groups .
Three organizations from different regions have received the funds .
Many teachers have benefited from having side businesses .
The organization ran out of money before some teachers received it .
There are many organizations which haven't received the money .
The group leaders are asked to mobilise more people to join them .
Microfinance banks don't have good interest rates .
Some organizations are not working hand in hand with others .
The teachers decided to support their own organizations formed at the village level .
Public school teachers are highly indebted .
The salary teachers get is not enough to cater for their daily needs .
The district education officer doesn't allow teachers to practice multiple borrowing .
Money borrowed from the organization will help them improve their lives .
They will get money at a very low-interest rate .
It is expected to improve the lives of people in this region .
They have never had such a groundbreaking ceremony in their region .
How will your services benefit our University ?
We are always ready to receive guests .
There are different organizing committees from other parts of the country .
We are well prepared to host the guests .
It is a source of income to the hosting district .
They have prepared good and healthy accommodation for the guests .
There are many tourist attractions in our district .
Development of oil and gas will attract development in the area .
There will be a poverty reduction .
Business partners from outside make good quality products .
To reduce the crime rate ,  the police should always be alerted .
Tobacco is harmful to life .
Growing crops on a large scale are more profitable .
Once charcoal usage stops ,  there will be a decrease in deforestation .
It is a source of income for refugees .
Smoking damages the respiratory system of the body .
Despite the health risks ,  many people continue to smoke .
Organizations are coming up to sensitize people to stop smoking .
The tobacco industry has been in existence for over forty years .
They are teaching the community the dangers related to smoking .
Smoke at your own risk .
Ugandan laws are not seriously taken into consideration .
Many people were charged and jailed for cases related to smoking .
It is illegal to smoke in public places .
Smoking tobacco damages the heart .
Smoking causes Cancer .
Blood vessels in the body are damaged by smoking .
Smoking increases anxiety and tension .
Organizations are researching the effects of tobacco .
A big number of people use tobacco .
Cigarette smoking causes lung cancer .
A big percentage of people discourage the use of tobacco products .
Heavy taxes are imposed on tobacco products .
Government invests a lot of money in health annually .
A father that smokes puts the life of his wife and children at risk .
Smoking damages the sense of smell .
Passive smoking is the inhalation of smoke .
It is a source of income to the farmers who sell tobacco leaves .
Cigarette factories continue to make a lot of money in selling tobacco products .
Teens who have friends who smoke automatically begin smoking .
It is difficult to quit smoking because of the addiction .
A child of ten years is supposed to be in primary four .
The young boy ensures total cleanliness at home before he goes to school .
The vegetable garden is a source of income to the family .
The boys are taught by their parents how to manage the garden .
They also grow crops for home consumption .
Their family has benefited from the nutrition program for refugees .
The project will help refugees in proper feeding and improving their diets .
It is in conjunction with other organizations .
The project is aimed at the well being of refugees .
The organization gives foodstuffs to refugees every month .
The food distributed isn't enough for the whole month .
The garden is her other source of income .
They lack the skills and knowledge of vegetable growing .
You can make a vegetable garden on a small piece of land .
He wants to extend his garden and grow more vegetables .
Farmers are trained on how to have productive gardens .
Women in the refugee camps are highly participating .
Vegetables are easily grown even on a small piece of land .
People need to be sensitized about their physical health .
Refugees need moral support .
Some food was donated to the refugees .
They were advised on how best to run their business profitably .
Leaders gathered for a workshop yesterday .
The workshop comprised leaders from all parts of the country .
Every leader shared their constituency's budget .
People should be economically empowered .
There is a need for people to unite and work towards development .
The government should work effectively to solve people's problems .
The community members forwarded their problems to the chairman .
The old man was taken to court .
It is challenging to grow up as an orphan sometimes .
He has earned a lot of money based on his talent .
Women were stopped from contesting for any political positions .
The lady divorced her husband .
Single mothers had an empowerment workshop .
The Bishop was very grateful to all people that donated money .
My late son was laid to rest yesterday .
We should always support each other .
He said we should do good to others .
Some leaders are not corrupt .
He reads the Bible every day .
He told us not to hold grudges .
We listened to the pastor's sermon .
Many people are still selfish .
Human beings are very materialistic .
His father is a very old man .
He did not go to school today .
He learnt how to speak English .
He tested positive for high blood pressure .
Our parish priest was transferred to another parish .
There are so many newly ordained priests .
They voted for new leaders today .
The community was very excited to welcome the new priest .
There have been so many misunderstandings in the family .
The accused was sent to court .
His son sold the vehicle .
The whole family hated him .
He has stayed here for a year now .
The church leaders served the congregation so well .
The community has been so peaceful for the past one year .
He encouraged us not to give up .
He made people very positive about the future .
The congregation attentively listened to the sermon .
The new church leaders were warmly welcomed .
Students are encouraged to develop a skill like cooking .
The priest condemned teenage pregnancies .
He called upon parents to guide their children .
Women had a workshop today morning .
We should always go to church .
Students are worried about the future .
He spoke about personal hygiene .
He advised us not to lose focus .
He also said we should be determined .
Personal hygiene should be maintained .
He laughed so loudly that everyone looked at him .
He told us to make good friends .
The education system needs to be improved .
Students performed so well this year .
There is a high rate of unemployment .
The football tournament will be held next week .
The tournament was aimed at promoting students' talents .
We were advised to discover our talents soon enough .
She said we should embrace our talents .
All schools were registered for the national sports competition .
Airtel sponsored the school sports gala .
The school was seeking financial support from sponsors .
There is a need to construct better roads .
Leaders wrote requisitions for development money from the government .
The final football match will be played today .
There are many presidential candidates .
The presidential candidates met up today .
A lot needs to be done to develop Uganda .
There was a presidential rally yesterday .
Many presidential candidates have not been nominated .
Youth should take up leadership positions as well .
He was criticized for his bad address during the campaign .
Most youths are ignorant of the country's economy .
People were advised to join hands to develop the country .
The police engaged in some brutal acts .
She aired an interesting radio programme .
The government is accountable to all citizens .
Religious leaders should advise political leaders .
Democracy levels are decreasing .
He started up a new business .
They tried calling him on the phone ,  but he did not answer .
The radio station was put off-air due to some illegal programs aired .
The youths' workshop was well organised .
The workshop was held for two days .
The event had several sponsors .
It was an international conference .
The security at the party entrance was really tight .
Attendance was only by invitation .
People were advised to carry their identity cards to the workshop .
Ugandans have started engaging in several income-generating activities .
The partnership will provide employment opportunities to the people .
The partnership between Uganda and Germany will encourage research and technology .
The ministry will monitor vaccination against Ebola in West Nile .
The vaccination teams will reach Arua in seven days .
The vaccination will start with health workers .
District officials in West Nile organised a meeting following the ebola outbreak .
Health workers should be vaccinated first because they are more prone to the virus .
The ministry will vaccinate a circle suspected to be having ebola cases .
Only contacts of contacts will be vaccinated .
Schools and markets should be left open .
People should be given knowledge and requirements to combat the spread of ebola .
There are no border terminals which makes screening difficult .
The ministry declared the country free from ebola after a massive check-up .
Three people died of Ebola in Kasese .
Uganda is at risk since there is an ebola outbreak in the neighbouring countries .
The ministry of health has been able to contain the epidemic .
The vaccine from the world health organisation is effective though insufficient .
Arua district lacks finances to prevent the spread of the Ebola virus .
The people of Arua are on alert after an ebola outbreak in Congo .
Ebola is a very dangerous disease which can lead to loss of life .
There is compulsory handwashing for everyone who accesses the hospital premises .
Ugandans should be ready to battle with the ebola outbreak .
The hospital will carry out proper documentation about the patients .
The hospital personnel have been equipped with protective equipment to fight off Ebola .
The hospital management has established simple clinics to manage Ebola cases .
Arua district has not succumbed to the Ebola outbreak .
People suspected of having Ebola are put in quarantine .
People have embraced hand washing as a way of stopping the Ebola outbreak .
All suspected contacts are traced and quarantined to prevent further spread of ebola .
Ebola brings about high fever ,  bleeding through the ears ,  nose and mouth .
Health facilities will be installed to prevent the spread of Ebola in the country .
The country registered three Ebola cases in Kasese .
The people travelled to Congo to attend a burial where they succumbed to ebola .
The government will establish new infrastructures in Arua .
People will get opportunities to engage in business activities .
People will get capital and increase their income levels .
People will engage in economic activities which will boost their financial capability .
The government has to increase its support towards the refugees .
People lack the income to provide for the needs of their children .
The project will ensure effectiveness in service provision .
There is proper documentation for the project beneficiaries .
The government has facilitated the establishment of schools ,  bridges ,  solar panels in Arua .
The government has equipped people with hands-on techniques in stove making .
The project will benefit only the people of West Nile .
The project will enhance agricultural productivity .
People will improve their standards of living .
The government has facilitated Arua regional referral hospital with an ambulance .
The government aims at handling emergency cases in the district .
The government has also ensured that refugee-hosting communities have better health services .
The ambulance will help refugee communities to have access to better medical services .
There will be a reduction in maternal and neonatal rates because of improved medical facilities .
Ambulance services should be readily available for the people .
The ambulance is well equipped with first aid services .
Uganda has an underdeveloped ambulance system .
The government will provide ambulances countrywide .
Ambulances should be operated by skilled health care practitioners .
The hospital replaced the old ambulance with the new one .
Hospitals should be well facilitated to handle all kinds of health issues .
Hospitals lack the income to take ambulances for maintenance .
Ambulance services will reduce mortality and maternal cases .
The police should arrest all people encroaching on wetlands .
Human activities alongside the river have affected the river capacity .
The region has a poor supply of water .
People have limited access to water services .
The people of Arua have shortages in water for domestic use .
People have engaged in business activities alongside the river .
The government should establish strict laws for people encroaching on the wetlands .
There is flooding along the Osu stream in Arua .
People should be sensitized about the importance of wetlands .
There is a change in rain patterns because of environmental degradation .
Most of the wetlands in Arua have been encroached on by the people .
People connive with leaders to occupy the wetlands .
Leaders are not concerned about the consistency in environmental degradation .
Leaders have failed to enforce environmental laws .
Some areas have been well protected and conserved .
Population pressure in the area has brought about the destruction of the wetlands .
People should desist from buying land in wetlands .
Investors are constructing infrastructures in wetlands .
Arua and Koboko established the environmental police to protect and conserve the environment .
The government will restore the wetlands in Nebbi and Malacha .
The ministry of water and environment has preserved over five thousand wetlands .
The government has provided income to facilitate the restoration of wetlands in the country .
There are increasing cases of child neglect in the area .
Early marriages are rampant in the area .
Men lack the income to meet the basic needs of their families .
Fathers should get involved in taking care of their homes .
Husbands and wives are always having conflicts at home .
There is rampant drug abuse in the district .
Mothers work hard and forget about their children .
Women drink a lot of alcohol in the area .
Women have neglected their responsibilities at home .
People should avoid drug abuse .
Fathers should be sensitized on how to help youths engage in useful activities .
Alcohol consumption leads to a high rate of domestic violence .
He praised his community for being brave .
One community member laughed at his comment .
They formed a football club in the region .
There was a football game in Northern Uganda .
They constructed a football stadium for their fans .
The football players prepared for the major games .
The team played against its local rivals .
The fans cheered their players throughout the game .
The players won their first big league .
The sports journalists were disappointed by the game results .
The players were very happy to play with the national team .
The country will never forget the cup finals four years ago .
The players should stay in their home regions to promote unity .
The fans were not contented with the game results .
The football lovers encouraged their players during the match .
The team lost because it underestimated its opponents .
The football team exited after its first loss .
The players won because of the confidence of their supporters .
The football fans fundraised for their football team .
The regional teams had a friendly match .
The game was interrupted by heavy rains .
The football supporters laughed at their opponent's loss .
The region looks forward to more game fixtures .
The football fans were excited for the team players selected by the coach .
The supporters joined another club because they were disappointed with their team .
The club only has renowned football players .
The winning club was advertised in the News .
The team only hired male technical staff .
They did not add any females to the technical team .
The deputised officer will work with the human resource officer .
The different leadership positions will be filled up .
Two leaders will supervise the construction project .
The staff said they do not need female staff .
Girls have a higher school dropout rate compared to the boys .
Women are still encouraged to apply for new posts .
The parliament of Uganda finally approved the budget .
More districts will be created in Uganda .
The state minister for local government will be the guest of honour .
The region members are excited about administrative results .
No one is above the law in Uganda .
There was no evidence that the minister was under lawful police custody .
He was arrested because of malicious property damage .
The accused was taken to a nearby health centre .
The accused was charged with treason .
The accused escaped from the hospital where he was taken for treatment .
The accused was put in police custody .
The accused requested that his medical bills are paid in full .
The suspect was later charged with treason .
The accused was granted bail .
He disagreed with the presidential directives .
The accused claimed to have been tortured while under police custody .
More police officials were deployed to ensure night security .
The two districts have endless fights due to funds distribution .
Nightguards were deployed to improve security .
Residents blamed their leader for poor management .
He failed to answer questions over the phone .
They received threats from people in the neighbouring district .
They were scared of bloodshed because of regional conflicts .
The police were informed about the ongoing threats .
Residents said the two officers would not provide security .
The police are supposed to handle people's issues .
The police should be provided with timely information on area matters .
Community members are advised to report issues to the police .
The border conflicts negatively affect members in the region .
Members should write their wills before they die .
The leader was buried that very evening by community members .
The old man died of diabetes .
The will helps the deceased's children to share property peacefully .
He educated the mourners on the importance of will writing .
The testament will prevent unnecessary issues amongst family members .
He advised community members to live a peaceful life while on earth .
We shall all stand before God one day .
The deceased was a football coach in his district .
As a coach ,  his team won various games .
The deceased left a widow and twelve children .
The society will pray for the deceased for three days .
The prayers will start in June .
The government created a new district from an already existing one .
The district prayers will start the following week .
They were advised to pray for a peaceful community .
They will also pray against corruption .
The leader organized for the district prayer .
Leaders are advised to stay away from corruption .
The First lady will be the event's guest of honour .
Political leaders will grace the occasion .
A new archbishop will be appointed next year .
The old archbishop will give his speech at the farewell event .
The leaders retire at sixty-five years of age .
He once served as a missionary at the age of nineteen .
His biggest achievements will be remembered .
He preached against human trafficking in his community .
He also preached against gender-based violence in the community .
Men should never lay their hands on a woman .
Gender-based violence a very ancient practice .
The community should fight against gender-based violence .
Young girls should stay in school to avoid teenage pregnancies .
Report gender violence the authorities .
It would be wise for one to quit an abusive relationship .
The campaign was aimed at benefiting the poor .
The government collects feedback from the opinions of community members .
Market people usually use bitter words .
Men must work hard to support their families financially .
Some traditional norms oppress the female gender .
Culture guides people to live morally upright .
Many dark-skinned women are bleaching their skins of late .
Marriages are breaking due to various things .
Marriage holy and acceptable before God
Husbands and wives should forgive each other's mistakes .
Why is it so difficult for some people to forgive others ?
Couples must aim towards working and supporting each other .
Women tend to hide their finances from their husbands .
Taxes lead to an increased cost of living .
Using mobile money ,  people can now settle payment transactions on the phone .
When a tax is imposed on a product ,  its cost rises .
Business people should have good marketing skills .
Different factors influence the cost of the product .
Renewable energy is collected from renewable resources .
Cookstoves and biogas are used for cooking .
How can a company market its products ?
Solar products are relatively costly .
How can the user identify a fake solar product ?
Entrepreneurs are risk-takers .
A widened customer base leads to business growth .
Skills can be trained or acquired .
Ceremonies usually host a special guest among other guests .
Dinners are usually evening events .
What should the government do to raise education standards ?
Students are sponsored for education by their parents or guardians .
Schools must give career guidance services to students .
He successfully finished his degree under the sponsorship of the trust .
Bright students from a vulnerable background have won themselves a sponsorship .
Fewer girls can complete school compared to boys .
Sciences are assumed to be difficult studies .
Choose what you need and leave the rest .
Education should be given priority .
With all the effort they put in ,  they managed to raise all the required funds .
Helping others is very important .
Some hotels are very expensive .
We have to come up with solutions to overcome gender-based violence in homes .
Human rights are for both genders .
What strategies have been laid to stop gender-based violence ?
What should we do to nurture the environment ?
Some cultural norms are oppressive .
Gender-based violence leads to depression of the affected parties .
What has been done to fight against Gender-Based violence ?
Violence is unacceptable in society .
Commitment takes determination and sacrifice .
What is the role of the church ?
The blame game never solves anything .
Church leaders should encourage people to live peacefully .
Spouses should work together .
What are some of the problems faced by society today ?
Maternal health is the health of women during pregnancy .
Some pregnant women die while giving birth .
Most men these days are running away from family responsibilities .
Adultery has caused most marriages to break .
Men are advised to take care of their wives during pregnancy .
His wife was delivered from Mulago hospital .
Midwives assist women while giving birth .
Women ,  please be content with what you have .
Pregnant mothers are encouraged to visit the hospital before birth time .
Women ought to maintain personal hygiene .
Early pregnancies are dangerous to the health of the young girl .
Women are not great time managers .
What is the purpose of the great refugee run ?
Annual events are carried out annually .
Refugees usually settle in refugee camps .
Why is the world refugee day celebrated ?
Athletes are all over the world .
Running is a form of body exercise .
A lot of games are available for people to play .
People with disabilities must be treated equally as others .
Some people are not aware of their talents .
Talents are nurtured ,  and they grow with continued practice .
An athlete is a person proficient in sports .
Health runs are organised for fundraising purposes .
Inspirations are a source of hope .
The emergency phase was a stressful one .
Refugees are natives of other countries .
Humanitarians are concerned with promoting human welfare .
Floods displaced people during the rainy season .
It is the role of government to keep its citizens secure .
Refugees need to feel secure in the host country .
Which organisations are licensed to carry out legal aid services in Uganda ?
The United Nations has some of its offices operating in Uganda .
A report must reflect the right information .
They implemented the ideas as shared by the members of the society .
Reports are very informative .
A report is like a form of written feedback .
Police serve members of the public as well as the nation at large .
Victims of violence need assistance through counselling sessions .
Judges ,  magistrates and others are some of the judicial officers in Uganda .
Corruption is a hindrance to development .
Uganda receives international aid for other countries .
The roads connecting those areas are full of pole holes .
Traditionally men are superior to women .
Violence against women is increasing in Africa .
Culture has affected gender inequality in Africa .
It is dishonorable to report your husband to the police .
Health care services enable women to go through pregnancy and childbirth safely .
The organization focuses on fighting the rights of women with children .
Gender inequality is high in the remote places of Africa .
Clan leaders take advantage of women even when the men are wrong .
Violence majorly affects women and girls .
Every day there are cases of domestic violence reported at police .
Village elders are called upon to sensitize people to stop this violence .
The group which raped the young girl to death has been arrested .
Drug abuse and addiction affect the community .
Violence can be prevented right from the grass root .
The organization is helping its members to improve their rural livelihood .
Trees provide food and homes for many birds .
The organization is working hand in hand with the church and educational sectors .
The church has greatly motivated people to plant trees .
Soil erosion decreases soil fertility .
The community is encouraged to plant trees on unused farmland .
The Bishop urged the church to collaborate with organizations planting trees .
Students from different educational institutions have taken part in tree planting .
The tree seedlings were distributed among two secondary schools .
The church is responsible for monitoring tree planting .
The police didn't present the warrant of arrest .
Everyone has a right to access a lawyer .
They failed to produce evidence before the court that he committed the crime .
Police officers kidnapped him .
The twenty-year-old was arrested for stoning the Minister's car .
The president appreciated the special force for keeping peace and security .
They failed to identify the people who stoned the car .
The commanders were remanded in the army court .
He apologized to him for being arrested mercilessly .
His arrest was unlawful because he had not committed any crime .
The identity of the men who arrested him is not known .
She left the hospital without the knowledge of the officials .
There is no evidence to show that he committed the offence .
The proceedings have been postponed until next week .
The government has put four billion into the construction of roads in the East .
The project was launched yesterday at the district headquarters .
It will improve the standards of living of the people in the northern region .
It is to help the development of better quality services .
Some district officials mismanage government funds .
He had a meeting with the people he expected to give the contracts .
Organizations have to work together during project implementation .
Projects should focus on implementing new solutions .
Government has put efforts into developing Northern Uganda .
New roads have been constructed in many districts this year .
Many people lose their lives and properties due to wars .
The northern part of Uganda has a strong culture in cattle rearing .
The new hospital is going to improve health services in the region .
Our district medical services are too low as compared to other places .
It is going to be the biggest hospital in the northern region .
Residents from nearby districts will also come here for treatment .
The construction is expected to take two years .
The number of health workers has increased compared to previous years .
A good medical centre should provide all services required by patients .
Many black doctors are better than white doctors .
There are few hospitals for people with mental illnesses in Uganda .
The ministry has established health centres everywhere in the country .
The chairperson has offered his land to construct a health centre .
People are happy with the government's efforts in improving health care services in Uganda .
Religious organizations have established many hospitals with quality services across the country .
The presence of health centres in an area improves people's quality of life .
Some pharmacies sell expired drugs to patients .
Many patients lose their lives due to the absence of blood in the hospital .
Victims of the road are at a high risk of losing too much blood .
The leader has called upon people to donate blood to save lives .
It needs a stand by vehicles for transporting blood whenever it's required .
The national blood bank collects a thousand units of blood from people annually .
During labour ,  some women need enough blood before and after delivery .
Some health service providers exploit people in various ways .
Female doctors are sometimes poorly handled by unprofessional male doctors .
Majority of heart complications in Uganda are referred to other countries .
Blood donors find it easier to get transfusion services when the need arises .
Blood donation relieves the body from excess blood and keeps it healthy .
It is important to have blood storage centres in all districts across the country .
A blood storage facility requires a huge sum of money to be established .
Cultural leaders in Uganda have greatly supported the health sector in various ways .
Non-government organizations are involved in improving medical services .
Having enough blood in the body helps it to function well .
The district health officer advised people to observe proper hygiene at all times .
Government Ministers in Uganda are well paid compared to other civil servants .
Some people engage in politics for money but not to serve .
The national budget should always focus on key issues affecting the nationals .
The educational services in the northern region are still low compared to others .
Government has promised to increase teachers' salaries next year .
Members of parliament receive many allowances from the ministry of finance annually .
Judges are the highest-paid civil servants in the country .
Leaders are not happy with the way people are opposing their salary proposal .
Local service leaders have started receiving monthly salaries from the government than before .
There is a concern that elected leaders rarely come back to the people they represent .
Teachers are among the lowest civil servants in Uganda .
There are many communication companies in Uganda .
The calling rates of some companies are too high compared to others .
Uganda hosted an international golf tournament at Entebbe golf grounds last year .
Golf is one of the games with few fans in Uganda .
How are the points calculated in this game ?
You must score the highest to win in sports .
It takes the best player to win a game .
Golf tournaments are for the golf players .
Golf is one of the rare sports played in Uganda .
Golf leaders are putting in the effort to promote the golf game .
Youths are being trained to play golf .
There are many sports games besides football .
There is always a team that has to win in the tournament .
The tournament is to host over sixty golf clubs .
Registration for the golf tournament participants is in progress .
Most projects are targeted to benefit the youth .
Majority of the youths in Uganda are unemployed .
Fish farming is the rearing of fish in ponds ,  tanks and more .
Fish farming is carried out for commercial purposes .
Income-generating projects are a source of income .
I suppose every elder has ever been a youth at a certain stage in life .
What is the age range for the youths ?
One at the age of thirty-five is not considered a youth .
Youths should avoid smoking ,  taking alcohol and drugs .
Crop growing is carried out on land .
Agriculture can be done on a small scale .
The president delegates to trusted government officials .
A pledge is a promise to do something .
Roads are worked upon almost every financial year .
Street lights light up the streets at night .
Some demands are not to be met .
Gifts are given to those we love .
We buy medicine from the drug shops .
What is the role of the National Drug Authority in Uganda ?
Qualified health officers should manage health roles .
Drug shops should be supervised to check out for expired drugs and more .
Very many drug shop outlets have been opened up in different places .
Some people are killed as they try to smuggle goods into Uganda .
The quality of health services is still poor in Uganda .
Unqualified medical officers should not manage health-related issues .
One needs a licence from the government to operate a business in Uganda .
Trading centres are the centre of business operations .
There are existing laws that govern the management of public health .
Licensed drug shops operate legally .
How is medicine audited ?
Journalists get us news .
Media companies employ journalists .
Authoritative orders are obeyed .
The president made a state address on the prevailing pandemic disease .
What is the role of a reporter ?
Always try to solve matters by the law .
Media is a communication outlet used to store and deliver information .
Corruption is almost everywhere in the country .
What is factual reporting ?
We have an internal audit this week .
Investigations bring to light things that were done in the dark .
Allegations held on someone could be true or false .
Journalists are not supposed to be subjective while performing their roles .
Corrupt officers should be thoroughly investigated .
Failure to refund money that is not yours can cause you problems .
Roads are budgeted for almost every financial year .
Who is the auditor general of Uganda ?
Government units are also responsible for fighting corruption .
It is wise to pay workers after they have performed their roles .
Police also help in fighting corruption .
What is the role of the parliament ?
Road contractors buy materials from their service providers .
Planning ahead of time is very important .
What was in last month's health report ?
Under what circumstances can someone be released on bond ?
The auditor general audits all government spending every financial year .
Nurse training schools equip nurses with the necessary skills to operate in the medical field .
Facts are proved to be true .
At the end of the project ,  we had to account for all the money .
The auditor general's report is made every financial year .
What is the role of the accountant general ?
Producing fake evidence before the court is punishable by law .
Inadequate money could delay operations .
Unaccounted money should be refunded .
The auditor general's report has very many queries .
Is it right for schools to be traded for other activities ?
Stadiums host thousands of people .
As a member of parliament ,  what is your role ?
Investors invest in a certain project for a purpose .
East or west homes are the best .
Companies through social corporate responsibility give back to the community .
Schools need to have playgrounds for students to play .
Experts are people that are specialised in what they do .
Through unity ,  we can achieve a lot .
It is wrong to assume that all Muslims are violent .
A subsidiary is a branch of the main company .
The land has been gazetted for forests .
Resources like minerals if exploited ,  can lead to economic development .
Uganda's financial year runs from the first day of July to the thirtieth of June .
Billions of money are spent by the government every year .
The hosting communities for refugees in Uganda are very friendly .
Plans are in place to build new district offices .
Madi is one of the newly created cities .
Silence is one of the most challenging tasks a leader has to take on .
Civil servants are the most corrupt public officials .
Ntoroko is the least corrupt district in Uganda .
There should be full accountability for government funds .
The mayor refused to attend the district meeting .
Infrastructures in the school contribute to the learning environment .
The pupils haven't had access to such facilities since the school was opened .
Parents have pledged to construct one classroom block .
When it rains ,  the pupils get shelter from the nearby church .
The leaking of classrooms makes children have negativity about their school .
The government needs to plan for public schools in rural areas urgently .
The teacher said that the pupils got used to having class without food .
Pupils got wet after the classroom room was blown away by the storm .
Our school was among the list of schools the government-funded to this year .
Good quality infrastructure improves learners' academic performance .
It is one of the best performing schools in the district .
Many schools in rural areas operate under trees .
He was surprised that the iron sheets were not delivered to the school .
The member of parliament is constructing latrines for my former school .
Being a public school ,  the government is supposed to provide all the scholastic materials .
South Sudan has a plan of importing power from neighbouring countries .
They are finding ways that will help them guide the community's decision-making process .
There should be unity among East Africa countries .
They are still planning for the project .
Uganda has exported power to some neighbouring countries .
Power has been provided for the West Nile region .
The company will help to generate power for the region .
The power generation plant will be switched on at night .
The main power installation will be carried out in July .
Arua is now connected to power .
Border towns near Congo have also requested for power connection .
Plans are in place to extend power to the border region .
The village leader is very grateful to the government .
It is difficult for Investors to come to a region if there is no power .
In addition to the roads that have been completed ,  power is also critical .
Reliable electricity must be delivered to the people in Northern Uganda .
The village leader has been deployed to ensure the success of the project .
Electricity poles should be planted during the dry season .
Are schools feeding the pupils well ?
During that year ,  sugar prices rose .
A healthy breakfast helps students to do better in school .
Poverty affects children's performance in class .
The students have been silent about the breakfast issue .
Breakfast is inclusive of the tuition fee .
Access to nutritious food is limited .
A child can get sick and fail to go to school .
Prices don't easily go down after rising .
The school administration tried to explain to the students the challenge in the economy .
The school management held a meeting to discuss the situation .
The school provides lunch and supper to the students .
The headmaster was not aware of students selling their personal property .
Children should be provided free breakfast at school .
Most of the students in that school are on government sponsorship .
Journalists have condemned the suspension of their colleagues .
The day was honoured by the planting of trees the whole time .
The media captured the arrest of one of the aspirants of the presidential seat .
The minister ordered the arrest of the journalist who captured the story .
Other journalists raised complaints about the minister's decision .
Is the communication body turning into a political institution ?
It doesn't make sense if media houses are stopped from covering news concerning politics .
His role is to regulate what is communicated to the public .
People have the right to access information .
Television stations had ignored the government warning not to cover the opposition leader's conference .
No law stops journalists from capturing political stories .
People are complaining about the decision made by the commission director .
Uganda has launched an independent media council .
The leader praised the media for creating public awareness .
The media has played a crucial role in protecting children's rights through awareness .
Without communication ,  the world would be in danger ,  separated and confused .
He encouraged them to plant more trees this year .
The team is playing a friendly match with the team from the neighbouring camp .
The netball match is between the youth and children from the settlements .
The project is carrying out developments in remote areas around the world .
The project is not about achieving money but rather boost the player's talents .
The company has previously been in partnership with other different companies .
Through football ,  they will build a good relationship between youth from different regions .
They are using sport to empower young refugees .
Sport for development and peace can transform the lives of the youth .
Sports has helped the youth to forget the suffering they faced during the war .
His income has transformed their way of living .
He got a scholarship for being the best football player in the region .
The organization is promoting digital learning in Uganda .
Government is to buy tablets for children in public schools in our home village .
My former school was the first school to receive the tablets .
Some people don't get fully paid after selling their land .
Learning is facilitated by technology that gives children some element of control over time .
It is aimed at improving the educational system in Uganda .
The organization will donate more tablets to more schools .
The organization has injected huge sums of money in the purchase of tablets .
Digital learning will help students to study away from school .
Learning encourages open and sincere communication .
They intend to cover a bigger percentage of schools in the country .
Learning enables children to grow fast .
It will also save time and money .
Teachers are to also benefit from the learning .
It eases access to information for the teachers .
Children can identify information from other resources .
Students who use digital gadgets perform worse in exams .
Some truck drivers get arrested due to lack of driving licenses .
Border security should be tightened to fight smuggling .
Community policing can be used as a way of fighting smuggling .
The war in South Sudan has led to the death of Ugandans .
Porous borders are one of the channels used for smuggling .
A border patrol department is essential in fighting illegal trade .
Looting of any kind is forbidden during demonstrations .
Scrap dealers should be regulated to fight theft .
Lack of regulation of scrap dealers can result in problems .
All trucks need to be cleared to combat trading in counterfeits .
Proper sensitization of truck drivers is essential in fighting smuggling .
Some security officials connive with illegal traders to smuggle goods .
Porous borders are used for illegal car trade with neighbouring countries .
Children should monitor their children's habits for proper upbringing .
Lack of proper upbringing results in prostitution among girls .
Church leaders should pass on the message of togetherness to prevent violence .
Unity brings about economic development due to stability .
Parental care is essential for child growth .
A good education system produces capable professionals of tomorrow .
Youths should focus on creating jobs rather than job searching .
Water shortage often results in poor sanitation .
Boreholes are an important source of water in rural areas .
The government should promote local tourism for economic development .
Recent kidnappings have raised worry in communities .
Unemployment is seen as one of the causes of kidnappings .
Use a taxi with enough people in it to avoid being kidnapped .
Kidnappers often ask for ransom or sometimes kill the victim .
Always draw up your car's mirrors and lock doors for your security .
Street surveillance can be used to fight to kidnap
Victims of kidnap often suffer post-traumatic stress .
Report to police any suspicious people in the community
Police investigations usually take a long time before being reported .
Clean ,  renewable energy is good for environmental conservation .
Strict regulations should be imposed on charcoal makers .
The average citizen does not understand global warming .
People need to be sensitized on issues of climate change .
If you see a counterfeit product ,  report it to the authorities .
Tree planting is one of the ways we can conserve our environment .
Each home should plant one tree to fight climate change .
Good breeds of trees should be distributed to homes for planting .
Forestry officials have been accused of being corrupt .
There are reports of mismanagement of funds in tree distribution .
Lack of proper forest monitoring has supported deforestation .
Young trees should properly be monitored for proper growth .
Tree planting can be spread to schools through school clubs .
The government needs to work with community leaders to fight deforestation .
Refugee settlements should be monitored to avoid child trafficking .
The honey industry is growing and will create jobs for the youth .
More funding should be given to beekeepers to grow their businesses .
Better packaging can improve honey sales significantly .
Middlemen in the honey business earn more than the farmers .
Beekeepers need to be equipped with more skills to grow business .
Bookkeeping is an essential skill in tracking business performance .
Better processing methods can improve the quality of honey produced .
Honey storage also has an impact on the quality of honey produced .
Beekeeping is not hard but profitable .
Better quality of the honey will enable farmers to export their produce .
Beekeepers should be taught on how to market their honey .
Commercial agriculture is one way of alleviating people from poverty .
Beekeepers should form a saving society to raise capital for members .
Donations are essential for the smooth running of orphanages .
Stolen schooL textbooks are sold for cheap in the black markets .
Parents should give birth when ready to reduce orphanage numbers .
Donation of scholastic materials good for student performance .
A good education leads to a bright future for students .
Rotary club has often come out to donate to orphanages .
Children under their parents should be grateful .
Orphanages offer educational services to interested orphans .
Individual contributions from members keep the club running .
More youths should take part in community outreaches .
Every donation made helps to take care of an orphan .
Even the smallest donation puts a smile on someone's face .
Private organizations should come out and support orphanages .
Most churches start orphanages to support orphans in their communities .
Reproductive Health should be taught to adolescents in schools .
Lack of reproductive health education results in unwanted pregnancies
Sex education is an important topic often ignored by parents .
Family planning should be taught at University as an essential course .
Combining both sexes for sex education is important and eliminates tension .
Men need knowledge about menstruation to stop stigmatising girls .
Men should be supportive of their partner when in their menstruation period .
There are many sexual myths that often misguide teenagers .
Teenagers need sex education before it's too late .
Early teenage pregnancies are a major problem in rural areas .
Academic exchange programs help strengthen ties between institutions .
Saving club rules should be followed to prevent fraud .
Every Ugandan child has the right to a good education .
Leaders must lead by example to be taken seriously .
Student associations create unity among members .
Student associations can be used as savings clubs for members .
Members of a student association can take part in agriculture .
Proper guidance from elders is essential for the survival of savings clubs .
Poorly performing students need guidance from their lecturers .
Division among club members can lead to the collapse of the club .
Information Technology is a major driving force of the economy .
Student leaders should use their positions to bridge the gap with the administration .
They were advised not to sell their land .
The chairman requested us to register our land .
They did not conclude about selling the land .
They own land in Kampala .
The church choir acquired new uniforms .
They were stopped from selling their land .
They bought the land last year .
I inherited my father's land .
Many families are settling land disputes .
They sold their land .
Her father insisted on selling their land .
Youths had a counselling session .
The tombs were constructed for cultural events .
Students were taught about culture .
They are building a school library .
Many children lack school fees .
They are fundraising to build a school .
They broke down the old buildings .
She doesn't respect the culture .
Parents are advised to take their children to school .
The late priest was buried yesterday .
The president will address us tomorrow .
He was elected yesterday .
The leaders' hand over ceremony is tomorrow .
A court session was held last week .
I have never met you .
You have never met me either .
Some men were arrested today .
The judge found them guilty of murder .
They reported the case to the police .
Today was my first time meeting him .
We forwarded the issue to the district heads .
The suspect was arrested .
She escaped from prison .
There was no evidence of her being beaten .
The court session was postponed to next week .
The court session was held today .
They travelled a very long distance .
The court session lasted a whole day .
We have inadequate money .
His car was damaged during the accident .
The suspects escaped from prison .
He admitted that he stole the car .
Other suspects are still being hunted .
Many people's cars were stolen .
The car was damaged beyond repair .
He was requested to say something .
Many people escape from prison lately .
The meeting ended with a prayer .
The case has not been closed yet .
The constitution was revised .
They strongly demanded justice .
Northern Uganda is an interesting region .
Cultural dances are interesting .
Many musicians turned up for the event .
People should be sensitized about cultural beliefs .
We had a meeting today .
The organization of the event was great .
Uganda attracts many tourists .
Physical features attract tourists .
We received food relief .
Immigrants are increasing rapidly .
They were informed about the workshop .
They paid for all the water bills .
Ugandans are very hospitable .
Many youths have taken up leadership positions .
They have a misunderstanding between them .
Children should keep in school .
The workshop ended earlier than planned .
They discussed leadership .
Everyone was rewarded after the workshop .
He asked when the workshop would be held .
The entrance fee was really high .
A women empowerment workshop was held today .
He was very grateful to his parents .
I listened to her challenges .
Girls are advised to learn several skills .
Parents should guide their children .
Several leaders attended the workshop .
Corrupt officials will be arrested .
We shall not have any meetings next month .
He told us to work as a team .
A new committee was elected .
Democracy should be practised .
They disrespected me at the party .
They urged us to respect each other .
New employees were recruited .
The corrupt workers were stopped from working .
There is no discrimination in my village .
My job application was rejected .
They declared some new districts this year .
People were called for job interviews .
They constructed a new bridge .
The town centre is not secure enough .
Are you self employed ?
I was forced to resign .
People travel long distances to Namugongo to celebrate Martyr's Day
We need to be united even with our different political affiliations
Leaders need to do more to bring services to their constituencies
Different political parties need to have a consensus for the country's good
Regular government inspection is important to ensure service delivery
Opposition and government should work together in service delivery
Incumbents usually win the next election due to their popularity
People need to follow up on the progress of district projects
Party defectors usually don't last long in their new parties
Tribalism is dangerous in politics since it brings about division
Being a politician means being ready to make sacrifices
The president often awards his allies with ministerial positions
The government should put more emphasis on vocational schools
Students in rural areas face the problem of travelling long journeys
Best candidates at the district level are awarded government scholarships
The government should increase the budget for rural schools
Parents and school administration should always work together
The ministry should reduce registration fees so that more students can sit exams
Schools should often renovate dormitories to improve student accommodation facilities
It takes effort from both teachers and students to deliver excellent academic performance
Teachers often use past papers to prepare students for examinations
Schools should teach vocational skills to their students to fight unemployment
Informal education such as carpentry is good for creating jobs
Religious leaders play an important role in district politics
School fundraisings are often aimed at improving infrastructure
Schools built on a religious foundation are good for instilling morals in their students
Construction is an expensive sector hence quality assurance is paramount
On-campus teacher accommodation is good for student-teacher relations
Churches often fundraise money to renovate their infrastructure
We always need to reflect and thank God for what he has done for us
Christians need to come together in prayer during this pandemic
We are all Ugandans even with our religious differences
Churches should run tree-planting campaigns to preserve the environment
Sunday school services have been suspended due to the pandemic
Church communities should engage in developmental projects such as piggery
Christians should donate to their church communities for church projects
People in business and the church should join hands and start developmental projects
East African countries should work together on matters of trade
Churches need regular donations to run their activities
People should donate land for church projects such as agriculture
We need to be united in christ so we can live holy lives
Church staff require nearby accommodation for easy access to the church
Most church buildings need to be renovated .
Some health workers have been accused of stealing government drugs .
Drug theft in hospitals leads to drug shortages .
Some hospital staff vandalise equipment to swindle funds for new purchases .
Regional hospitals often lack funds to run their activities .
Most corrupt officials find a way of escaping justice by burying evidence .
Hospital top management should do more to fight corruption in hospitals .
Health officials should have a good relationship with the people they serve
People don't trust doctors who work in community clinics .
Health officials need to be regularly audited to fight corruption .
It's a good idea to install spies in government hospitals to investigate corruption .
Ugandans should be sensitized on how they can help reduce corruption in hospitals .
Top health officials should champion the fight against corruption in hospitals .
Hospital equipment should be regularly maintained for better service .
Surveillance cameras should be installed to fight health equipment theft .
Stolen equipment is usually resold on the black market .
Corrupt health officials should be severely punished by seizing their assets .
The state should protect whistleblowers who report corruption .
Clear financial loss due to corruption needs to be reported by the authorities .
Proper investigation measures need to be put in place to fight drug theft .
There's a lack of enough specialists in the medical field .
The government should construct more maternity health facilities .
Lack of enough funding greatly affects regional hospitals in rural Uganda .
More transparency is needed to account for procured health equipment .
Anti-corrupt officials need to find ways of not being corrupted themselves .
More scholarships should be awarded to needy students to grow our health workforce .
Students need to be educated about the various scholarship opportunities available .
Students offering arts subjects should also be catered for regarding scholarships .
Parents have a stake in discussing student sponsorship facilitation .
Lack of information leads to low scholarship applications in rural areas .
Higher education is expensive ,  which leads to increased school dropouts .
Student scholarships should be extensively advertised so that nobody misses out .
Most scholarships for higher learning are offered in government institutions .
Rural students need to be given access to scholarship information .
The government needs to do more on ensuring rural education quality is stepped up .
Various stakeholders have discussed how best to enrol more students under scholarships .
Good nutrition helps children grow and be active at school .
A balanced diet is essential for proper child growth .
More sensitization is needed to educate parents on proper child feeding .
Schools need to revise their meal plans and feed students on a balanced diet .
Regular sensitization is a measure to eliminate malnutrition in families .
Good feeding is essential for a student's academic performance .
Foods rich in proteins are good for body growth and are essential in a balanced diet .
Agricultural projects such as piggery have proved to be beneficial to communities .
There's a digital divide between people living in towns and those in remote areas .
Regular antenatal visits are essential for expectant mothers .
People are advised to eat protein-rich foods such as meat and fish .
Malnutrition results in stunted growth among children and adults
Research should be done on how to address the issue of malnutrition .
Demonstration farms have proven to be important for agricultural research .
More funds should be allocated to Agricultural research to ensure food security .
Cultural leaders can be used to sensitize their communities on proper nutrition .
More effort should be put in to address malnutrition in rural areas .
Cancer remains a silent killer in Uganda; therefore ,  we should all be screened .
Breast cancer sensitization can be done in schools to reach larger groups of girls .
Cancer patients from villages find it hard to go to the Uganda Cancer Institute .
The ministry of health needs to establish a regional cancer institute .
The district needs to obtain land for the establishment of the institute .
People need to go for medical check-ups frequently .
There is another type of cancer ,  but it mostly affects children .
The district leaders agreed to establish a regional cancer institute .
The leaders should inform people about the causes of cancer .
The president directed the ministry to decentralise health services .
Cancer institutes will be established in different districts .
The ministry should provide cancer facilities and limit cancer cases in the country .
People rarely go for cancer screening which affects their lives .
Cancer affects all people and does not discriminate .
The district leaders should properly plan for the district .
The district has to compensate people before undertaking any projects on their land .
The people used legal procedures to stop construction .
The government has provided income for the reconstruction of roads in the area .
Funds were allocated for consultation purposes .
There will be an improved transport network .
People should be compensated before any road construction takes place .
People need compensation to relocate to other areas .
Construction work will not commence unless all stakeholders are satisfied .
People should be involved in decision making .
Construction will take place without encroaching on people's land .
People should embrace the development because it comes with positive aspects and impacts .
There should be a consensus between the district leaders and the local people .
The ministry of tourism has launched the story about Idi Amin .
The public wants a detailed history of the former Ugandan presidents .
The foreigners were giving a forged history about the presidents .
The history was obtained from the records and archives of the national television .
The people of Arua wanted to remember the history of the former president .
The exhibition looks at embracing the history of Amin and appreciating culture .
There will be a construction of the museum in the area .
The effort is made to promote tourism ,  culture ,  history and business at large .
The district will secure land for the construction of the museum .
The committee explained on television how they would conduct the elections .
The exhibition was about informing people about the history of Uganda .
Some roads should be named after presidents .
The people of West Nile have contributed greatly towards the development of Uganda .
The minister pledged to provide the museum with the Lugbara calendar .
The historians should organise the history of Uganda because it is rich and unique .
The anniversary of Onduparaka football club will be presided over by the President .
The celebrations will take place in February .
The chief guest will be President Museveni .
The celebrations will involve a series of activities .
People within the area will play football games on the day .
The club will launch its strategic plan ,  anthem and the bus project .
Everyone should jubilate because this football team belongs to this community .
The club is the pride of West Nile .
People's businesses rotate around the club .
The club will address all the challenges it is facing .
Onduparaka has been able to sustain itself in the Uganda premier league .
Efficient workers increase the level of production .
The resident district commissioner confirmed the presence of the head of state .
The district leaders and the security officers are working together to secure the area .
Many people will attend the celebrations .
The president will address the challenges faced by the club .
The president will support the club where they are lacking .
The event has become both social and political .
There should not be any discrimination because of differences in political affiliations .
The district is looking at conserving nature and preserving the environment .
The ministry of water and environment initiated the program .
The process has to be approved by the parliament .
The council has to ensure proper valuation and evaluation of the land .
People have to be involved in decision making and have to be consulted .
The council approved the appointment of new members .
How can we influence the ongoing activities ?
The swamp will be fenced to conserve nature .
A education centre will be established to facilitate research and new technological developments .
The city will enhance business activity in Arua .
There will be a market for goods and services from within and outside the country .
The government has facilitated infrastructural development in Arua .
People should work together to develop .
The district has provided land for the project .
The meeting was cancelled because the speaker was sick .
The council was looking for remedies to solve the existing challenges .
The meeting started with the national anthem .
The meeting ended after the speaker declared that he was sick .
The speaker apologised and adjourned the meeting .
The members had no idea of the speaker's sickness .
The speaker's sickness was abrupt .
Members claimed that the speaker should be effective and efficient .
There is poor communication at the municipality .
The speaker's actions are dishonouring the council .
The speaker is disorganised and irresponsible .
The speaker should have informed the clerk if he was to be in absentia .
The council needs to act very fast .
The forest was harbouring criminals .
The deputy should take charge if the speaker has not recovered .
A new meeting should be rescheduled .
The planned meeting had to approve the budget .
The ministry authorised the municipal council to observe and coordinate the underlying activities .
Christians have come together to construct a perimeter wall .
The wall will be a centre for business activities .
Most of the required bricks were laid by the Christians .
Every chapel will provide a specific number of bricks .
The people were given confidence after the priest brought items for fundraising .
Some church activities require funding .
Most youths love music .
Christian donors usually donate to support the church .
Constant reminders are a great tactic of mobilisation .
Any amount of money given up for support is taken as a contribution .
We cannot forever rely on foreign donors .
Theft is a criminal offence .
Sometimes stolen items are recovered by the authorities .
Cattle keepers rear cattle .
Thieves are detained at the police station .
The law punishes wrongdoers .
The dry season is not favourable for the animals .
If you do not abide by the law ,  you might be arrested .
Do not sympathise with criminals .
What is the meaning of nepotism ?
What makes one be considered a professional ?
Professionals have experience in what they do and are academically qualified .
Opportunities for businesses lead to economic growth .
When given a job ,  you must be willing to work .
Nepotists only give jobs to those close to them .
We are all human beings ,  so let us love one another .
Unity leads to development .
Lack of unity can hinder progress .
Everyone holds expectations of the future .
Do not rush to make decisions .
It is normal for people to disagree about something .
The effort is being made to improve service delivery .
Why should people continue to kill and rob others ?
Sometimes people know the fellow residents that cause insecurity in the area .
The resident district commissioner manages activities at a district level .
The military men are assembling in their barracks .
History is not usually forgotten .
Liberty comes along with lots of benefits .
The major gave a wonderful speech .
Robbery and killings cause insecurity in the area .
One has to be legally permitted to own a gun in Uganda .
Motorcycles are easily stolen .
The police give custody to suspects .
The celebrations comprised of both the army and the civilians .
How can we improve security in an area ?
People usually know a lot of things in their surrounding .
What can disrupt one's peace ?
Criminals not only rob but also take away people's peace .
The authorities searched for those that would be owning guns illegally .
Different groups of people ,  once in a while ,  come up to do community work .
What is found in the aid kits ?
Ear infections are very rare .
He received treatment from the doctor yesterday .
The deaf can hear through the hearing aid kits .
One that hears can easily learn how to speak .
Deafness can be healed .
What could cause one to lose their hearing sense ?
Hearing aids have done wonders for the deaf .
Some disorders can be inherited .
How much does a hearing aid kit cost ?
He could not afford it ,  but at least he got it for free .
Older people lose their hearing senses as a result of age .
What are the characteristics of a person with hearing complications ?
The receptionist welcomed us in a very respectable manner .
In Uganda ,  teachers in public schools are periodically transferred to other schools .
Workers are periodically assessed on their performance .
Teachers are responsible for the pupils passing .
What should teachers do to improve students general performance ?
He called the journalists for a press conference tomorrow .
Bosses need to keep a good relationship with their workers .
Sick people should stay near to the health centre .
My sister worked for that organisation for over twenty years .
Teachers report to schools to teach students .
Disciplinary measures are set to punish hostile people .
Over seventy teachers were transferred from Kampala district to other districts in Uganda .
The education officers shall be supervising schools anytime from now .
What is the retirement age for civil servants in Uganda ?
When you reach your retirement age ,  you shall have to handover office .
New workers are being recruited to fill up the vacant positions .
Pipes are put underground to help in the movement of water to the users .
Water supply is difficult in rocky and hilly areas .
When I was in the village ,  I used to pump borehole water .
Some challenges require quick fixing .
People in town centres face many challenges .
Hilly areas usually have a high altitude .
There are many alternative sources of water .
Droughts usually lead to water scarcity .
We have to accept to work with others willingly .
Water at lower pressure flows slowly .
Politicians usually make empty promises .
Very few politicians are credible .
Presidents solve national problems .
Leaders can be replaced .
Only ten journalists turned up for the press conference .
Leaders are fond of wanting to cling into power for long .
Politicians cannot be trusted .
Politicians make promises as a way of convincing voters .
We have several political parties in Uganda .
Healing and reconciling give one peace of mind .
I think it's time for Uganda to experience new political leadership .
Countries should learn from the experiences of fellow countries .
That political party is not known in the district .
The party's liberation day is celebrated every twenty-sixth of January annually .
The party is determined to win the elections in most of the constituencies .
Our president was invited as the guest of honour for the ceremony .
The ministry has donated twenty million shillings to the veterans .
People are actively participating in community activities .
Once you pledge you should endeavour to fulfil your pledge .
The party celebrated its thirty-fourth anniversary in existence .
He was the member of parliament for that district .
The member of parliament initiated the groups in that region .
The president advised them to rename the group .
The village leaders asked the president to fulfil his pledge .
The groups need money to operate effectively .
Different groups are created to help veterans .
They asked the government to help in the setting up of industries in that area .
Money borrowed has helped women to improve their standards of living .
Loans are an important way to start or build a business .
How does someone become a priest ?
There were rumours that he couldn't make it through the priesthood .
Is there an age limit for becoming a priest ?
Priests can not marry after ordination .
I was happy when my son became a deacon .
People around the district attended his ceremony .
His parents advised other youth to follow the deacons footsteps .
His son is well behaved and a God-fearing man .
My mother is a devoted Christian .
He is a God above all gods .
The priesthood is a calling from God .
It is God who chose me to serve him ,  not the people .
He was advised to remain faithful to God .
During every election cycle ,  many churches preach politics .
He thanked his parents for allowing him to join the priesthood .
People with diabetes can also take honey .
It is a potential source of income to farmers .
People never looked at beekeeping as a source of income .
Bees improve pollination of garden crops and flowers .
I have been raising queen bees for a long time .
Honey plants produce nectar for bees .
Human should protect the natural environment .
In Uganda ,  the best honey is produced in Bushenyi .
Organizations help society to fight poverty through beekeeping .
They have boosted beekeeping in the community .
More women are family breadwinners today .
She was given five local beehives .
Women are highly participating in beekeeping .
Government has given aid to the victims of floods that occurred last month .
The district chairman has organised a leadership workshop at the headquarters .
Refugees face many challenges in the new places they settle .
Our chairman is the newly appointed patron of the youths club in our village .
The officer gave us good instructions at the beginning of the training .
A trained person is more productive at work than the unskilled .
The women poultry project collapsed because of disunity among members .
Some financial institutions give loans with high-interest rates .
The executive committee mismanaged the club's funds .
Cutting down trees without replacement destroys the environment .
Our district received about three hundred refugees last year .
Government has given financial support to all women groups in Uganda .
I wonder why the government workers salary has delayed this month .
Most of the roads in rural areas are in a poor state .
The district budget for this year will be read next week .
Government cautioned leaders to give full accountability for the money they received .
Our village council had allocated more money to improve health services .
Taxes contribute to national development funds annually .
Government has increased salaries of medical workers effective next month .
The funds allocated are not enough to complete the maintenance of the road .
Poor roads raise the risk of car accidents .
People who lose land in the process of expanding roads are always compensated .
The government puts in huge amounts of money in social services annually .
A larger part of the country lack clean water sources .
Government is happy with the new water sources funded by the government .
Drinking of dirty water causes many diseases to people in the community .
It is safer to boil water before drinking it .
Diarrhoea is very common in places with dirty water sources .
Organizations work jointly with the government in distributing clean water to all places .
Boreholes are the major sources of clean water in rural areas .
They assured the locals that they would construct more boreholes in the region .
The cooperation has disconnected all people who fail to pay their water bills .
All the boreholes in our region are in bad condition .
The wells in the villages should be cleaned and fenced .
Christians have raised money to support the expansion of their Church .
Government has given new cars to all religious leaders in our districts .
Churches carry out charity works to the needy in their community .
Christians should continue donating to their Churches .
Christianity promotes peace and mortality among people in a society .
Some followers blame their leaders for misusing church money .
The money came in at a time when they needed to renovate the church floor .
The leaders thanked Christians for their commitment to developing God's work .
Christians outside Uganda have donated fifty bags of cement .
The church has been in existence for forty-five years .
The president yesterday passed out eighty assistant inspectors of police .
The officers were trained on how to react in any situation .
The training will help police officers get more communication skills .
More training was given to them about the tear gas grenade use .
They were trained new skills of anti-riot control .
Such training began way back in the late sixties .
Police fires tear gas at the protestors .
The police beat the suspects .
I have high blood pressure .
How many people participated in the previous election ?
How many people have registered for the training ?
We should embrace our differences .
Criminals take advantage of demonstration to steal people's property .
We are fighting for our freedom .
How much money have you invested in that football club ?
How can we protect sensitive information from the public ?
That is your own imagination .
Have you played any league game ?
We have basketball games tonight .
What time is the practice ?
What are the duties of the referee ?
What football club do you support ?
What is the salary structure in this company ?
How many penalties were in that football match ?
What causes corruptions among the leaders ?
Football is an interesting game .
In what region do floods occur ?
How many players make a football team ?
Who are the craziest football fans ?
What is the punishment for match-fixing ?
Under what circumstances could unclassified information be considered a threat to the nation .
The road is so narrow .
What are the benefits of public transport ?
How much money does a primary school teacher earn ?
What is the name of that construction company ?
I need access to clean water .
Which year were you born ?
A woman is pregnant for nine months .
When is the first phase of the project beginning ?
What is the importance of agriculture ?
Who is responsible for the implementation of public policy ?
Political parties are launching their manifesto next week .
Mobile phones are used in communicating .
Television is a source of entertainment .
My mother is cooking food .
Our project needs more funding .
What is the reason for suing your father in court ?
What are problems faced by the people of West Nile ?
Statistics show that many women die while giving birth .
How do you describe a person with a disability ?
We are working towards having a better tomorrow .
You deserve better than this .
How do you write an objective ?
How do you express your feelings ?
When did you lose your sight ?
He made a conceptual error such as multiply two fractions .
Let us meet in the trading centre .
Where is the trading centre located ?
Who is washing your car ?
What skills do you have ?
Is that a wholesale shop ?
I am having a busy day .
We need to hire a professional for this job .
What is the name of that town ?
He helped me get a job .
Where will the tailoring training be ?
Will you enrol for that course ?
When are you finishing your exams ?
How many students drop out due to lack of school fees ?
How long is the training period ?
What is the purpose of starting a school ?
You should learn something new .
My village is a place that I like to visit in my holidays .
How do you know if someone is an expert ?
What is the capital city of Uganda ?
What do you do on the festive season ?
You should join one of the vocational institutions .
What are some of the challenges you face while raising funds ?
What are some of the vocational skills ?
How do you train students ?
How many students sat for their examinations ?
How many students have been enrolled for an entrepreneurship course ?
Who is setting the primary two exams ?
We are planning to give back to the community during the Christmas season .
Do you have an examination centre ?
Does getting pregnant cause girls to drop out of school ?  .
Where do you plan to buy land ?
Is short term health insurance a good idea ?
What are the ten best primary schools in Kampala ?
How do I get my bank statement printed ?
How do you show accountability ?
How do we spell the word purchase ?
What is a requisition form ?
We have an emergency meeting today .
How do I open up a bank account ?
How much money did you withdraw ?
How do we address a formal letter to the Headteacher ?
Members should be accountable for allocated funds .
Process responsibility was handed over to the advocacy committee .
Parents need to receive school fees accountability .
The church will take care of the orphans' school fees .
Norms and morals of young people should be preserved .
Sex education should be taught in schools .
School children are more curious after sex education .
Paternal aunties play an important role in sex education .
Clan leaders should teach sex education in schools .
It is a taboo to mention private parts in some cultures .
The speech was given between partnership meetings .
Family planning should be taught in schools .
The spread of AIDS in married couples is due to unfaithfulness .
Stakeholders should be consulted before plan implementation .
Religious leaders should preach faithfulness in marriages .
Biology teachers also teach sex education in schools .
Cultural leaders should play a part in sex education .
West Nile used to have prominent leaders .
The constitution was amended .
Cultural institutions were re-installed .
Roads have been handed over for construction .
The roads were handed over to a foreign company for construction .
Funds were received to start construction .
The road was handed over to a construction contractor .
The roads will be constructed with street lights .
Northern Uganda has benefited from the construction program .
The municipality received money for infrastructure development .
They used funds for road construction .
They are building a modern taxi park .
They need to work together to finish the projects .
The road project belongs to the people and not the government .
The public is advised to embrace the project .
The public is advised to work hand in hand with contractors .
The construction is meant for city development .
They will start construction by clearing trees .
The money will be used for road projects .
The headmaster handed in his resignation letter .
They disagreed on school funds .
The team illegally received funds .
They were requested to pay a fine .
The name of the project was used illegally .
The money will be transferred to the school account .
The team refused to agree on which account to transfer money .
There was pressure to start roads construction .
The teachers blamed the students for spreading wrong rumours .
The headteacher mismanaged the funds given to them .
The parent requested the headteacher to change their minds .
Headteachers should hire more staff for better management .
The ambulances were impounded over tax payment .
The ambulances were purchased for expectant pregnant mothers .
The ambulance owners are required to pay tax before using them .
The revenue authority requires a fifty per cent tax from the amount used during purchase .
He was told that ambulance purchases are tax-free .
They are working on having the ambulances released .
He promised to clear all his taxes .
The ambulances will be taken to rural areas .
People have died due to lack of ambulances in rural areas .
She saved her salary to buy ambulances .
The ambulances will be released before the next year .
They confirmed that the ambulances are tax-free .
They are withholding important details on taxation issues .
People are encouraged to participate in elections .
The government should get involved in country dialogue processes .
They need to agree on national consensus to promote peace .
Women are advised to participate in electoral processes .
They didn't get accountability for the dialogue .
The government should offer leadership in different processes .
The government will mobilise funds .
There were mixed legislative actions and blame games .
The general elections are one year away .
Court advised that the electoral process is revised .
Citizens are advised to participate in the election processes .
Leadership determines the status of every society .
People should use elections to replace bad leaders with good ones .
Leaders are accountable to the electoral commission .
All leaders are equally important .
The officials were granted bail .
They discovered that the banker was Ugandan .
The bankers were abducted the previous week .
The bank officials required security for the loan .
The officials were handcuffed and arrested .
The bankers can't be charged with illegal entry into the country .
The property has been transferred to the banker's name .
The documents were handed in as requested .
The foreigner will be arrested for his illegal actions .
They received two announcements on the radio .
The scheduled meeting was illegal .
Parents were briefed about anomalies in school management .
The failed meeting resulted in a police case .
The school management committee requested for the meeting .
The officials were replaced for failure to follow protocol .
Officials have abused school funds .
They blocked committee duties because of monetary issues .
The money that was withdrawn remains unaccounted for .
A general meeting has been scheduled to deal with regional issues .
Many parents were complaining about the fees increment .
The school was founded by a bishop .
People were arrested today .
Five prisoners were released yesterday .
Many people got bank loans during the lockdown .
More people were arrested today .
The issue has been reported to the village police .
The police refused to listen to the prisoners .
The land was bought by a certain old man .
There was a court session on land-related cases today .
The land conflict has not been resolved yet .
Uganda has some Congolese soldiers .
Banks need to be transparent .
Everyone should acquire a national identity card .
The arrested officials were released yesterday .
Murder is such a sin .
People should desist from abortions .
Ladies should be sensitized about the dangers of aborting .
Parents should take care of their children .
It is the parents' duty to groom their children .
Uganda is endowed with vast resources .
People are not maximizing the resources present .
We should always be grateful to God .
The church has done a lot to instil positivity among the masses .
People should seek to know God more .
Everyone should work hard .
We should help each other overcome challenges .
Everyone is responsible for stopping corruption .
Girls still need to be empowered .
People should be kind to each other .
He requested everyone to renew their lives this year .
More people go to bars lately .
Festive seasons are always moments for families to meet up .
Certain songs are played for specific occasions .
The organizers disclosed the budget for the event .
Teen events usually cause a lot of traffic jam .
Youths turned up in big numbers for the event .
Several artists turned up for the event as well .
Decoration should be highly budgeted for .
We received more people at the party than we had anticipated .
The party was really colourful .
It was such an enjoyable event .
There was tight security at the party .
All attendees of the party parked their cars in one place .
They deployed enough security personnel at the venue .
There was a lot of traffic jam due to the party .
Many hotels in Arua hosted parties on the same day .
The Bishop requested the congregation to support various outreaches .
Priests empower our community .
The Bishop was grateful to the event organisers .
The community needs to support religious leaders .
The parish celebrated its golden jubilee last year .
The community evaluated the ongoing projects .
They strategized on how to generate more income .
The congregation raised some funds for the renovation of their church .
The young generation should be encouraged to become priests .
The silver jubilee will be celebrated next year .
People contributed towards the annual celebration .
Social events were held to fundraise for the actual jubilee .
The road to the parish should be constructed .
People can not use a bus to reach the diocese due to the bad roads .
All landowners should register their land with the local council .
Roads were constructed before declaring Lira a city .
All village landowners met the local council chairman .
Leaders are accountable to their voters .
People were sensitized about the economy .
All landowners were told to register at the district offices .
The project was aimed to improve the standard of living .
Leaders should fund community projects .
Everyone has a right to education .
People dislike registering their land .
All the family members disagreed with land registration .
The community has purchased some computers .
The church funded the construction of the main road .
The church fundraised for road construction .
Uganda is made up of several religions .
There are insufficient funds to construct a new building .
The church plans to put up a new building .
The building will be finished by the end of the year .
They decided to construct the main offices first .
The funding will be enough to construct the whole building .
Fundraising sessions were held every day after prayers .
The Bishop urged everyone to contribute towards the construction of the new church .
Christians support church activities .
The old structures will be broken down .
The main offices have cracks on them .
Northern Uganda held many festivals last week .
The festivals were mainly cultural .
Northern Uganda has several tribes .
Different regions grow different foods .
Every region in Uganda has a staple food .
Cultural food was served at the event .
Girl child education should be promoted .
Several associations have been started to support the girl child .
There is inflation in the food market .
Women had an empowerment session yesterday .
They organized an event to welcome the tourists .
The event involves a series of entertainment activities .
People were trained to entertain during the festival .
The girl child needs to be empowered and supported .
The aspirant to join the army collapsed and died .
The army aspirant died after the run was flagged off .
The death of the deceased occurred in the morning hours .
The deceased had epilepsy .
The doctors did everything ,  but they were unable to rescue him .
People with health complications were not supposed to join the cause .
The army targets four thousand recruits .
Recruitment is only for youth .
The minister sensitized people to embrace job creation instead of job seeking .
The students should be ready to work .
Students should engage in business activities instead of being lazy .
The minister was the chief guest at the graduation ceremony .
University leaders cautioned students against involving in unlawful acts .
Students should uphold integrity ,  faith ,  excellence ,  diversity and creativity .
The university mentors students to have a clear path towards success .
He explained that emphasis should be towards changing their mindset and not the degree .
A parish chief explained that they acquired the degrees to get promotions .
The graduands thanked their parents for the advice .
The police sensitized people to embrace peace and harmony in this season .
People should work with the police to secure the area .
The police will arrest lawbreakers .
People should inform the police about criminal activities in the area .
The police will attack criminal hideouts .
The police will have no mercy on people who engage in criminal activities .
Police informed people to be aware of stolen items which are available on the market .
People caught with stolen items will be charged in the courts of law .
People were warned against moving with money and interceptions of the criminals .
A new bank has launched a branch in Arua .
The bank has cemented its existence in the country .
The bank is foreign-owned .
The bank has embraced the people of Uganda and wants to grow with them .
The bank will not make any business partnerships .
The bank only requires stability to extend opportunities for the people of West Nile .
The bank will provide loans to small scale business .
Automated teller machines were introduced to simplify money transactions .
The government should create a conducive environment for business activities to take place .
The parliament should reform the tax policy so that more people engage in business .
This bank has come to help farmers in Uganda .
This bank's goal is to improve the lives of the common people .
The bank has provided employment opportunities to the people in West Nile .
People have supported the bank and its objectives .
The religious leaders have sensitized people to spend wisely in this festive season .
The bishop informed people to help those who are vulnerable .
The bishop informed people to plan for their finances and their families properly .
The bishop gave a very educative and informative message .
The bishop condemned traditional ways of celebrating Christmas .
People should not engage in any form of immoral activities .
Jesus Christ died for our sins .
The diocese has different departments .
The bishop advocated for an increase in security within the area .
The bishop wished the congregation a happy festive season .
People should embrace purity ,  just like Jesus Christ .
People should safeguard their lives and property .
The bishop informed people to support church activities .
The bishop informed the congregation to give in generously .
People should give in the tithe .
People should give in what they can manage .
People should not be forced to give and should give willingly with love .
Men should assume their responsibilities in society .
The woman still provides for her children despite her disabilities .
The lady conceived four children from two men .
Men divorced her because she is disabled .
She has toiled to provide for her family .
She is now working in a stone mine .
She crushes these stones to get money and educate her children .
She gets money to finance the education of her children .
She prays to God to bless her with finances .
She got polio when she was young .
The government officials did not help the lady .
Most of the people with disabilities are drug addicts .
These people are unproductive and cannot engage in business activities .
The district should create a stable environment for people to participate in the business .
People should be treated equally and should not be discriminated against .
Drug addicts are always idle with nothing to offer to their families .
People should understand that disability is not inability .
The leaders encouraged men to work collectively and provide for their children .
Historicals need a special day from the government to celebrate their return from exile .
The former vice president solicited support for the President in West Nile .
People who had gone into exile would get an opportunity to unite .
The veterans agreed to stay united and harmonize with each other .
The president invited the veterans to come back to Uganda .
The government will become more popular .
The government has failed to fulfil the promises it made to the veterans .
Most of these veterans are having poor standards of living .
The resident district commissioner emphasized that the youths are the leaders of tomorrow .
The youths should learn from experienced elders .
The district leaders should provide support for the refugees .
All people should keep their animals locked .
The district should establish irrigation schemes and boreholes in the area .
The people have problems with the water supply in the area .
The village assemblies have a responsibility of connecting and uniting the people .
The people can speak out during community meetings .
Agriculture is now carried out for commercial purposes .
Bush burning destroys the environment .
What is the role of local environmental committees ?
Despite the existence of laws ,  people continue to defile them .
People continue to burn charcoal due to its existing demand .
In some societies ,  local leaders pass authoritative orders .
To attach meaning to your words ,  act on them .
Leaders can delegate to others .
Leaders influence their subordinates .
Do not go on threatening people around .
Diligent leaders change the community for the better .
Farmers should take care of their animals .
Is their need to make more laws ?
Some commercial activities are a threat to the environment .
A car is a necessity for some people .
Archdeacons are church ministers .
Religions like catholic and Anglicans have administrative leadership that governs them .
A personal car is of many benefits to the user .
Development is a gradual process .
Some religious leaders have a low standard of living .
Dreams if worked upon ,  can be realised .
Politicians ,  businessmen and religious leaders all have the power to stimulate developments .
The community supports religious leaders in different ways .
It is possible to catch up with those that are ahead of you .
Cars assist in easing the ministry .
Motorcyclists are easily knocked down by vehicles on the road .
Teenagers should avoid taking alcohol .
Families and the community at large are faced with many challenges .
Residents have a right to voice whatever they are not comfortable with .
Men should respect and care for their wives .
It is the responsibility of a man to take care of his wife and children .
He lost his respect in society ,  all because of alcohol .
His spouse helped him to overcome alcohol addiction gradually .
People need time and motivation to change .
Adultery is not a solution .
How long should couples take in courtship ?
Underage boys and girls are those under the age of eighteen years .
Parents are encouraged to go for different family planning methods .
Gender-based violence is common among women .
Priests are ordained to serve God .
Senior church leaders ordain priests and deacons .
We ought to take God's ministry very seriously .
As a Christian ,  be mindful of your behaviour on earth .
God loves people to work with their own hands .
Be a joyful and diligent worker .
God gave man the authority to rule over the world .
Your actions could be ministry before God .
We are all made in the image of God .
Give children the required basic needs .
Religious leaders serve both God and man .
The local leaders consulted the community before concluding .
It takes money and time for development to take place .
Maintaining cities is costly .
Road reserves are demarcated for future roads to be constructed .
Sometimes using force on fellow humans is not necessary .
Youths ought to work hard for their future .
Skilling youths help them create their own jobs .
The government should thoroughly create awareness for all its programs .
We have several divisions in Uganda .
The land to be occupied was already demarcated .
The decisions you make today can greatly influence your future .
The court has a right to rule over the action that needs to be done .
The warrant being a legal document ,  it must be signed and dated .
The applicant is one that started legal proceedings .
What do judges base on to conclude at a given judgement ?
Court orders must be submitted to .
Everyone has a legal right to file a petition in court .
Court has a right to issue a warrant of arrest .
Lawyers act on behalf of their clients .
Violence and riggings are common in elections .
Treason is a case charged to people that have betrayed their country .
The police investigated the theft case .
We used the bus to travel from home to school .
Police must confirm that certain incidents happened .
The bus has set off from the bus terminal .
Do not be careless at performing your rightful duties .
In case of any challenges faced at work ,  report to the management .
Drivers drive cars ,  buses ,  lorries and trucks .
Why should I go for a mental checkup ?
We departed for the tour very early in the morning .
Relaxing on duty could cost one his job .
Guards ought to be strict in their roles .
Security officers are usually armed .
Road pavements should be upgraded to the satisfaction of pedestrians .
Accidents are common on busy roads .
Bad roads may most likely cause accidents .
Rain causes some roads to flood with water .
Children should be guided on the road .
Look left and right before crossing the road .
What causes accidents on the road ?
Everyone should work hard to save a life .
Pedestrians walk on road pavements .
Society problems shall be acted on .
Road contractors are given contracts to construct roads .
Over billions of money are used to fund road constructions .
Consumption and sale of alcohol in sachets have been banned .
Men who use violence against their female partners are likely to be using alcohol .
Policy for gender-based violence has been launched .
Local government plays an important role in the fight against gender-based violence .
So many relationships are damaged because of alcohol .
Some people spend their largest proportion of time in bars drinking alcohol .
Parents who marry off their young daughters should be arrested .
The minister promised to help in the prevention of violence in the community .
The village elders will help in sensitizing the community about the dangers of alcohol .
Some men and women are often reluctant to report violence cases .
Police should report and respond to gender-based violence once reached out .
Some cultural institutions should be blamed for encouraging forced marriages .
Her husband badly beat her for abusing him in public .
All the local bars should register themselves at the district town council .
Businesses which are not registered should not be allowed to operate .
Women and girls' voices are often excluded from decision making .
Gender equality is important to achieve a peaceful society .
The village elders held a meeting to discuss how to achieve gender equality .
Students from different learning institutions are in a two days workshop .
Young girls between the age of fourteen and eighteen years must be in school .
Parents should observe and identify their children's talents .
Women should participate in science and technology initiatives .
Uganda has partnered with organizations around the world to research education .
Women voices should be represented in society .
Discriminating women hinders them from advancing their careers .
Women have a right to higher education as men .
Child daycare centres should be encouraged at all places of work .
Arua has been empowered with skills with job creation .
The organisation is training the youth to be job creators .
There is a youth organisation in our village ,  teaching youths how to make mats .
Government is leasing one hundred acres of land for the construction of industries .
The industrial centre will be a skilling centre for the youth .
It will help to prepare the youth with skills to succeed in today's economy .
The trained youth should be given space for employment .
The people in the community were delighted with the government's involvement .
It will help to reduce unemployment in the youth .
The mayor urged the youth to develop their talents .
Skilling development helps to improve standards of living .
The leaders need to solve the unemployment gap in the district .
Refugees have been empowered to work on several practical projects .
In the past month ,  several youths have been trained in computer skills .
Some members of parliament were happy when parliament approved new cities for the country .
Other members did not support the approval of these cities .
There is an increase in land grabbing in Uganda .
Questions rose about the funding of these cities since the creation didn't have a budget .
Candidates who were not nominated in the party primaries decided to contest independently .
A political party was sued for selecting aspirants in a constituency that doesn't exist .
Two families have been quarrelling over land for some years .
Winning an election in Arua is important .
Every new city in Uganda needs to be planned for .
It would be good if election rigging does not occur this year .
The new cities will require leadership before elections .
There is no desire to change the current status of things .
It is not yet confirmed that Fortportal is a city of its own .
Arua municipality is located in the North West region of Uganda .
Elections enable people to select the leaders they love .
The local chairpersons are at the centre of service delivery in Uganda .
The government has to decide on the fate of the new districts .
The new districts have to provide all the information required by the funding bodies .
Kampala is projected to become a mega-city .
A road map guides you towards accomplishing the preset goals .
It will get to know potential problems/opportunities at their earliest stage of development .
The cities will commence operations next month .
The cities have been allowed to start building roads .
The cities have to be given new leaders .
The chairman briefed the leaders on the new city developments .
People are not happy with the proposed district merges .
The new districts have a very high population .
The women representatives will be increased to four .
Some districts have a high number of voters .
The people need to be given equal representation at the district .
The district leaders did not have any complaints at the meeting yesterday .
The district leaders have appealed to people to be calm .
People ,  poverty and disaster risks are increasingly concentrated in the cities .
The young ones are the future leaders of tomorrow .
Living in a city has a lot of disadvantages .
A total of two hundred refugees have trained in bricklaying activities .
They had their graduation ceremony last Wednesday .
The project has sponsored girls to study abroad .
The program head says there are twelve new programs the school .
The university held the sixth graduation ceremony .
Many boys in the district are good at carpentry work .
The minister has worked closely with the local leaders to develop the youths .
The person in charge of this training is very experienced in the field .
Parents bought all craft items made by students in last year's graduation .
I have seen a difference in her lifestyle after the training .
The lady makes sweaters for nursery children .
She was able to help with the siblings' education .
The man is trying to get a better place for his daughter .
Trainees have been empowered with cake making skills .
I can make money out of chapati selling business .
I can now afford to support my family .
The refugees should be able to grow their own food for their families .
The beneficiaries should use to keep their equipment safe .
The women empowerment project was implemented in Gulu .
Fishers carry out fishing activities at the landing site .
The government aims at establishing new infrastructures in Moyo district .
The district provided tax holidays to local investors to encourage trade in the area .
The government has equipped districts with new computers and machines .
The district encouraged people to embrace the new technology in the district .
The resident district commissioner has forwarded people's challenges to the president .
The people are computer literates .
The new technology will improve communication among government agencies .
Information communication technology will be introduced in schools .
The technology will help the district to ensure proper record keeping .
Experts were contracted to connect the communication cables throughout the region .
The government aims at enhancing technological innovations at the local government level .
The technology requires the installation of underwater cables .
One kilometre cables will be placed through river Nile from Adjumani to Moyo district .
The installation of the cables will be completed in February two thousand twenty .
The engineers said that cable installation would not affect water transport .
There is an outbreak of yellow fever in Moyo district .
Three people have died of yellow fever in the area .
There is a constant testing of people against yellow fever .
Most of the contacts of yellow fever have tested negative .
The district lacks finances to monitor positive and suspected cases of yellow fever .
The district leaders informed people to join the fight against yellow fever .
The district leaders have sensitized people to guard themselves against yellow fever .
Moyo general hospital does not have an effective isolation facility .
The hospital lacks equipment for transporting blood samples .
The district health department should purchase tool boxes for transporting blood samples .
The people who bury yellow fever victims do not have protective equipment .
District leaders have given psycho-social support to families that have lost the dear ones .
The district health department has motivated medical personnel .
Leaders are elected to serve the people .
Politicians in the district are greedy and selfish .
Most of the people in the district are illiterate .
The district education officer should boost education services in the area .
The Archbishop celebrated the Eucharistic mass in Moyo Catholic parish .
People in Northern Uganda are disunited .
Christians should have their faith and trust in God .
People should work together to enhance development in the region .
Christians should embrace the gospel ,  for it will change their lives .
Christians should focus on the future to meet their social obligations .
People should confess their sins to God .
People should work hard if they are to improve their well being .
Christians are preaching the gospel of unity and love .
Northern Uganda is poorly developed .
People should use the resources at their disposal and engage in business activities .
Leaders should have collective decision making .
Yellow fever is spreading in the district gradually .
Fifteen people have contracted the disease .
People with yellow fever have been thrown into isolation .
People have lost their lives after the yellow fever outbreak .
Refugees have been affected by yellow fever .
The district lacks a standing laboratory to cross-examine yellow fever samples .
The district ambulance lacks fuel .
The district lacks funds to inform people about the dangers of yellow fever .
People should sleep under treated mosquito nets .
District leaders are confident of containing yellow fever because they contained Ebola and cholera .
People have been informed of the symptoms of yellow fever .
People should remain calm and let the ministry of health manage the situation .
Yellow fever is transmitted through bites of mosquitoes .
The symptoms of yellow fever include vomiting ,  headache and fatigue .
People are frightened because of the yellow fever outbreak in the area .
The minister of health confirmed the yellow fever outbreak .
Moyo and Buliisa are the districts affected by yellow fever .
People were advised to report any person with symptoms of yellow fever .
There is deforestation in Moyo district .
Yellow fever weakens the body .
Yellow fever samples are tested from the Uganda Virus Research Institute .
People should isolate themselves to control the spread of yellow fever .
People are panicking over the outbreak of yellow fever .
The ministry of health has deployed its medical experts to combat yellow fever .
People should avoid contact with people who have died of yellow fever .
Yellow fever is a very dangerous disease .
The Ministry of Health carried out an active search for yellow fever cases .
The Ministry of Health has provided people with mosquito nets .
Travellers should be vaccinated against yellow fever .
People lack treated mosquito nets .
The Ministry of Health provided a phone number to acquire information about yellow fever .
Cultural leaders lack funds to register their cultural institutions .
Cultural leaders should follow legal guidelines .
Madi people want to legalise their cultural institution .
There is disunity among cultural institutions in the area .
There are conflicts within the cultural administration .
People have conflicted over the rightful chief of the Madi people .
Cultural leaders have failed to cooperate .
Elders asserted that the Madi people would not develop if they are disunited .
Cultural leaders should mobilise the people to ensure the development of their communities .
The district leaders should help in the organisation of cultural institutions .
Some politicians have intentions of weakening cultural institutions .
The district leaders have made efforts to unite members in society .
The district organised meetings to solve the disputes among the people .
Traditional leaders are disunited and lack coordination .
There is drug abuse among school-going children .
School management should enforce school rules and regulations .
Parents have failed to advise their children on what is right and wrong .
Many students were suspended for abusing drugs .
Students were told not to drink alcohol .
Students' phones were confiscated .
My parents told me to follow the school rules .
We were told to dress decently .
People should not take nude pictures .
I have outgrown my school uniform .
Most disciplined students succeed .
One's family background may affect their performance at school .
Her son was expelled from school because of bullying others .
Most people migrated because of wars in their homeland .
The mob killed the thief .
He has just been confirmed dead .
The mob has been arrested for not respecting the law .
The thief was killed in the morning .
Journalists arrived at the scene late .
He died of drug abuse .
His body was taken to hospital for postmortem .
We do not exactly know who killed the thief .
They picked the body from the mortuary .
The mob was very disorderly .
The mob disorganized the entire event .
The angry mob attacked the police men .
One of the policemen shot someone .
He has been given some treatment .
We are advised to report all criminals to police .
The police officers are still investigating the case .
The police official was kind enough to me .
The chairman has not yet given his remarks .
The outgoing chairman gave his speech .
I have not received any communication from the bursar .
The new committee members will swear in next month .
He won the presidential elections .
He explained why we needed to have the elections soon .
He shared his accomplishments while he was in office .
The community members really appreciated him .
People with disabilities were well represented .
The priest was transferred to another region .
The chairman was appreciated for his good service .
She asked for clarification on the elections .
I was left speechless after the minister's communication .
I learnt a lot during my term of office .
He lost the elections last year .
He decided to contest again this year .
They requested everyone to plant a tree in their compound .
Deforestation has great effects on climate .
They decided to invest in tree planting .
More people wish to buy shares in the company .
Very many trees have been cut down recently .
He said that more land would be provided for tree planting .
We are all responsible for tree planting .
Tree planting can be a source of income .
People were advised to practice re-afforestation .
Most people cut down trees to get firewood .
I don't know why my performance has deteriorated .
The best performers were rewarded .
Many students are learning from home due to the pandemic .
Students are very poor at Mathematics .
All schools admitted more students this year .
Teachers should always guide their students .
She has not attended lessons for the past one week .
Most of the teachers were laid off .
Most students need special attention from their teachers in order to excel .
Teachers should always mind their behaviour while in classrooms .
The whole class failed the examination .
The parents were wondering why their children had performed poorly .
He is likely to lose the election .
He has very many responsibilities .
They requested for money to organise the event .
The community was briefed about the constitution .
She was released from prison yesterday .
My brother accused me of eating his food .
People are not informed about the nomination procedure .
He has applied for a bank loan to start up a business .
The funds have taken long to be released .
We have not seen the accountant in a long time .
He admitted having rigged the votes .
He was not welcomed into the community .
They complained about the bad governance .
The magistrate declared him guilty of impersonation .
He cleared the bank loan .
His salary has been tripled .
A good number of women are picking interest in leadership .
The gender gap in Uganda is still big .
Men still disrespect their wives .
Women should form organizations to empower themselves .
Some girls are still denied the right to education .
Most leadership positions are occupied by men .
Men should support women in all aspects of life .
We were told not to discriminate against one because of their gender .
Some men still think that women should only stay at home and cook food .
A woman empowerment workshop is being organized .
Different projects have been started to support the girl child .
The doctor told me to take my child for immunization .
All children will be immunized free of charge .
He was immunized at birth .
The hospitals lack enough polio vaccines .
The polio vaccines meant for the refugees were delayed .
Few people were vaccinated against polio .
The ministry of health has carried out vaccination to control the six killer diseases .
The ministry aims at maintaining a healthy lifestyle among the people .
Some parents resisted the vaccination of their children .
People were not informed about the vaccination campaign .
Some people produced body rashes after taking the vaccines .
The district health workers extended health services to the people .
The youths engage in sex at a young age .
The district organised a meeting to address the challenge of early pregnancies .
The district has established sexual reproductive health programs in the district .
There is an increase in the maternal mortality rate in the district .
The ministry of health has embarked on reducing the maternal mortality rates .
The hospitals lack qualified medical personnel to handle women in labour .
People have no access to family planning services .
Sensitization on family planning will be added to Sexual reproductive health program .
Sexual reproductive health will reduce the rate of gender-based violence .
There is improper sanitation in schools .
The district leaders advised the people to avoid alcoholism .
The district will extend the sexual reproductive health services to the people .
People should organise themselves in groups to get loans from the government .
The government has provided capital to people so that they participate in business activities .
People have been equipped with skills in carpentry and tailoring .
People lack the income to take their children to school .
People lack the income to engage in business .
The district encouraged the families to work hard to achieve socio-economic transformation .
Families lack food and clothing .
People cannot access loans from banks .
Women have assumed the responsibilities of providing for their families .
Men were advised to stop the polygamous way of life .
Pupils have abandoned school for business activities .
Schools need education structures .
Most of the pupils absent themselves on market days .
There is a poor transport network in the area .
Pupils are underperforming at school .
Children are not interested in education .
The poor attendance of the learners has affected the morale of the teachers .
Parents should encourage their children to study .
Primary schools are performing poorly in the primary leaving examinations .
Parents have a negative attitude towards education .
Parents have introduced learners to small businesses which have diverted their attention from school .
Absenteeism of the pupils has encouraged poor performance .
Parents were fined five thousand shillings for not sending their children to school .
Schools have encouraged parents to send their children to school .
The district leaders should lobby more funds from the government .
The district has poor infrastructures .
There is an improvement in the transport network in the district .
Roads have been constructed in Moyo town .
Moyo town council lacks funds to improve service delivery in the area .
Moyo town lacks better education facilities .
The district officials should enhance development within their areas .
The district leaders have the aim of achieving the municipality status .
Moyo secondary school road was constructed .
The district officials will supervise and regulate road construction in the area .
People pledged their support to the leaders in enhancing development .
People in the district lack enough food to eat .
The government has provided people with food to eliminate the cases of malnutrition .
People have been affected by diseases like marasmus .
People have been advised to have a balanced diet .
Parents were advised to feed their children well so that they stay healthy .
The district aims at reducing the cases of malnutrition in the area .
Thirty-four per cent of the children have stunted growth .
Mothers have poor feeding habits after delivering .
People have been advised to engage in Agricultural activities .
The government approved the district nutritional plan .
Children divert school fees to gambling .
Parents should personally make school fees payments .
Children do not pay school fees when they are given money .
Students divert money for school fees in sports betting .
Students do not turn up for school after losing school fees money in betting .
Less than two hundred students turn up for school in the third term .
The government should regulate the activities of betting companies in society .
The law which restricts betting to people below eighteen years has not been enforced .
Betting has encouraged theft among children .
Parents should prohibit their children from betting activities .
Gamblers assert that betting is a source of income .
Gamblers asserted that only the lucky ones earn from betting .
The district passed a bye-law to ban gambling activities in the area .
District officials should strategise and improve the performance of children in schools .
Parents lack the income to provide for the academic needs of their children .
Students performed poorly in the mock examinations .
The district education officer advised candidates to stay focused and register good performances .
Moyo and Obongi acquired only twelve first grades in the mock examinations .
Students have challenges of question interpretation because of poor English .
Teachers should equip learners with the knowledge to guide them in the final examinations .
Male candidates performed better than female candidates in mock examinations .
Teachers are not focused because of low pay .
English was one of the poorly done subjects .
Tertiary institutions equip learners with practical skills .
Students perform poorly because they had a weak foundation in the primary section .
Parents have recognised the importance of education .
Coral reefs have discouraged fishing activities on the River Nile .
The weed on River Nile has made it difficult for fishers to catch fish .
Fishers lack funds to take their children to school .
My salary is too low to sustain me .
He acquired another loan before clearing the previous one .
All drug abusers will be punished .
He ventured into fishery because it is profitable .
I earn a lot from the fishery .
Drug abuse is very unhealthy .
Most people in my village practise mixed farming .
Farmers are making losses .
They were advised to venture into poultry .
He earns a lot of money from selling eggs .
All his chicken died of pneumonia .
Fishermen complained about the water hyacinth .
The minister donated fishing nets to the fisherman .
A new market was constructed in Kampala .
The number of market vendors has increased .
They decided to build a hospital instead of a school .
Most market vendors realize huge profits .
All market vendors were requested to pay taxes .
They requested the government to renovate the market .
The city is overpopulated .
The market will be renovated .
My father does not own any land .
He sacrificed his land for market construction .
The market is really organized .
The town centre has been developed .
The government-funded the construction of the market .
The market owner told all the vendors to register with him .
The market vendors have a savings group .
The market has a leadership committee .
The hospital workers are very hard-working .
I am one of the founders of the hospital .
All health workers were urged to perform their duties .
The doctor was transferred to another hospital .
All patients were taken to the health centre .
The health centre has a board of governors .
The patient was requested to pay a consultation fee .
A new generator was acquired for the health centre .
The health centre also acquired an ambulance .
The ambulance was stolen from the hospital parking yard .
The court ordered the police and the army to leave his house immediately .
The accounts department had a meeting today .
They informed the chairman about the event .
There is a need to construct better roads in Uganda .
My father gifted me a car .
All presidential candidates were given vehicles .
It is not safe to move into town at night .
I do not know how to ride a motorcycle .
He took his vehicle from repair .
The chairman requested us to register our cars .
We are very unhappy with the new cabinet .
We have not had any executive meetings since last month .
We are organizing a by-election .
The elections will be conducted tomorrow .
They appointed new ministers this year .
Some people were not happy with the new leaders .
The school recruited more non-teaching staff .
Girls were encouraged to take on leadership positions .
Women always feel segregated .
Women should be respected and supported .
Women were urged to believe in themselves .
The level of absenteeism in schools is so high .
People did not vote for me in the recently held elections .
The number of women engaging in politics is increasing .
The president encouraged us to work towards a common goal .
She was appointed to be the minister of health .
She has gone to the hospital because she has a headache .
There are many criminals at fishing sites .
He is a fresh graduate .
Her son has started fishing to get money .
All fishermen were told to register at the district offices .
Fishers were given fishing nets to enhance their work .
Some people carry out fishing illegally .
Fishers should be careful while fishing .
All people who fish illegally will be arrested .
He was arrested for selling stolen fish .
He stole the fishermen's fishing nets .
He was taken to court over theft .
The chairman advised us to report all suspected thieves to him .
The price of fish is so high these days .
The community members asked their leader for the annual budget .
He shared last year's budget with us .
The budget was not clear enough for us .
The budget has been forwarded to the ministry of finance .
They presented the budget during the parliamentary meeting .
He requested us to apologize to the minister of finance .
Many Ugandans earn very low salaries .
Many people can not afford food .
The budget must be revised .
Everyone did not understand the document .
He requested us to be transparent about the expenditures .
They struck over poor leadership .
New schools have been built in my village .
The school got burnt last night .
People are fundraising to renovate the boy's dormitory .
Many children are bullied while in school .
The current political situation in the country is so annoying .
The local people took the matter into their hands and hired their own security guards .
The district lost millions of money in delayed infrastructure projects .
The leader had a personal reason for involvement in that project .
The woman representative urged the youth to stop involving themselves in riots .
Residents are disappointed because the newly constructed roads developed cracks .
Various organizations have funded the construction of roads in that region .
Many regions in northern Uganda lack proper water facilities .
The residents contributed to the construction of the borehole in their village .
They didn't use experienced personnel in that project .
The district needs more funds to complete the water drilling project .
The funds allocated to the district were not enough for completing the project .
A certain organization has pledged to complete the construction process .
The district leader delegated his supervisory role to his subordinates .
The road leading to the trading centre is in a very poor state .
The district management has failed to make road changes to adapt to new conditions .
The heavy rains last night damaged the road .
The heavy rains have destroyed schools in the refugee camps .
Residents in our village are working together to maintain community roads .
The region has only one ambulance ,  which has served for twenty years .
Floods have affected more than one hundred people in our village .
They are threatening to demonstrate over bad roads .
The district leader blocked the diversion of funds .
The road will be a network link to different areas in the region .
The government is in discussions with an external company to complete road construction .
In our area ,  people are finding it difficult to access life-saving facilities .
Two officers have arrested a leader for defiling a thirteen-year-old girl .
There is an increase of rape cases during the pandemic lockdown .
The teacher is guilty of rape .
The main hospital gives free medical examination to rape victims .
He was sentenced to five years in jail for defiling a fifteen-year-old girl .
Five boys were arrested for gang-raping a thirteen-year-old girl .
He used force to rape the young girl which injured her .
The tight jeans my friend was putting on save her from rape .
A man strangled a woman and raped her .
He was too ashamed to tell everyone the truth .
He was terminated for absenteeism from work .
Some parents decide to settle rape and defilement cases outside court .
A young girl was forced to marry an old man who impregnated her .
Her parents forced her to change the statement and withdraw the rape case .
There was an increase in sexual violence during the coronavirus pandemic in Uganda .
So far ,  there is an increase in defilement cases this year .
The government facilities in our village need maintenance .
A government officer misused funds intended to buy new beds in the main hospital .
More than one thousand businesses and buildings were damaged during the riots .
A new boys dormitory is under construction .
The district has got funds from different organizations to improve health facilities .
The organizations help refugees settle into the new community .
It took us five hours to reach the nearest health facility .
That region hosts the highest number of refugees .
Uganda is the largest refugee-hosting country in Africa .
Local communities contribute to the welfare of the refugees .
Most of the refugees in Uganda come from the neighbouring countries .
Residents were happy when the government built a new hospital in their area .
In our village ,  early pregnancies escalated during the pandemic lockdown .
In refugee camps ,  there is an increase in teenage pregnancies .
Some young girls seek means of survival ,  and they end up getting pregnant .
Some of these young girls are forced into marriage .
Organizations are educating girls on the dangers of early pregnancies .
School health clubs have been formed in schools .
Girls who are not in school are at a high risk of early pregnancy .
Parents are paid money outside the court to close rape cases .
Learners are urged to remain in school to have a bright future .
Girls in Uganda between the age of six to twelve have never attended school .
Village leaders urged parents to support their children in education .
Peer pressures among girls cause some early pregnancies .
Some communities have banned nightclubs due to immoral acts .
Land wrangles are very common in Uganda today .
The Ugandan parliament created new districts .
The parliament has as well created new counties .
There are fights between the local leaders in our village .
Her opponent falsely accused her .
Through elections ,  the community will choose a leader they want .
She asked them to bring proof of the allegations towards her .
For now ,  she is the woman leader of the two districts .
People in our region should always live together as one .
For a region to have economic growth ,  there must be cooperation among the residents .
Leaders should have compassion among themselves and the people they lead .
The woman leader encouraged us to work together for the greater cause .
Students should get knowledge about sexual education .
There is a high rate of dropouts in our schools today .
Poverty is one of the leading causes of school dropouts in Uganda .
We should always encourage children to remain in school .
There is a bias against girls education in Africa .
The organization educates children about abstinence and sexually transmitted diseases .
Some girls fear to open up to parents about their sexual life .
A teacher lured a girl into sex ,  promising to buy her scholastic materials .
Can we reduce violence among young children ?
I will help my daughter to achieve her dreams .
At school ,  the senior woman taught us how to lay our beds .
There are some words teachers should never say to their students .
Senior woman in school helps girls to overcome challenges caused by menstruation .
Parents marry off their young daughters in exchange for bride price .
School health programs have helped to protect adolescents in schools .
Waste management is one of the environmental problems faced in Kampala today .
Garbage is collected from our homes every week at an agreed fee .
An organized town must have a spacious garbage collection center .
The district health officer warned residents against poor waste disposal .
Local council leaders have suggested a day for weekly general cleaning .
The council has set up rubbish pits in all centers to maintain cleanliness .
The council hired private trucks to speed up the garbage collection process .
Some council officers take advantage of situations for personal gains .
Residents blamed the town councilor for delaying to collect garbage .
The council officers punished people who throw garbage in road trenches .
Market officers are directly in control of everything including garbage collection .
The inter religious council is the body that unites all religious leaders in Uganda .
A Muslim has to make a holy pilgrimage to Mecca to be called Hajji .
The Muslims fasting period is called Ramadan .
Ibrahim is the father of all believers in religious history .
All Moslem families have to slaughter an animal on this day .
The government donates animals and rice to Moslems across the country .
Moslem men are allowed to marry more than one wife .
Disunity yields no good in people's lives .
We are all one in God's image .
There is a good relationship with Uganda and other countries .
It is a religious norm for Muslims to share meat on Eid .
Eid is celebrated every year .
It is good to love one another .
He donated food stuff to the elderly and disabled people .
Politics have led to rivalry between the two regions .
The district committee planned on expanding the central market .
There is an increase in the number of people flocking in the capital city .
This land is viable for farming .
A rich man in our town donated the land for construction of the barracks .
I connected with my customers to attract more business opportunities .
Infrastructural developments have led to the economic growth of our town .
More people leave villages and farms to live in the cities .
Various areas have been found suitable for the relocation .
They were relocated to a more spacious land .
There is a new police post in our trading center .
The relocation is expected to take about four months .
The procedure for relocating the barracks is too long .
There is a misunderstanding between the two refugee hosting districts .
There will be economic instability in the region .
Nowadays people take the law in their own hands .
Supporters of different opposition parties are fighting each other .
There is an increase in mob justice in our town .
The police are investigating the cause of the matter .
Some leaders are selfish and they only think about satisfying their pockets .
The victims of mob justice received treatment from the region's main hospital .
Our region has one ambulance which can't cater for all the emergencies .
The two leaders had their personal misunderstandings .
Leaders should always work hand in hand with each other .
The district hosts the highest number of refugees .
There will be a reconciliation meeting tomorrow at the district headquarters .
He will contest for the post of member of parliament in the upcoming elections .
These are false accusations from the opposition leader .
The minister didn't receive the invitation .
He requested the government to increase funds allocated to refugee hosting districts .
There is an increase in poverty due to the Coronavirus pandemic .
Who is to blame for the accidents caused by bad roads ?
It's ten years now since they last worked on the road .
The company has acquired new machines for road construction .
Through our leaders ,  we complained about the bad infrastructures in our town .
The road leads to the town trading centre and is used by many traders .
The roads have many potholes which would cause a serious accident .
He tried to avoid a pothole and he knocked a man on a motorcycle .
The leaders are to blame for the diversion of funds meant for the project .
The woman leader is leading a demonstration against the poor roads in their town .
The bad roads cause accidents every day .
We cannot be slaves in our own country .
Maintenance of the roads will begin next month .
When working on a project ,  one should consider the turnaround time .
The minister blamed the contractors for the poor quality machines used in the construction .
The leader led the sit down strike in the town center .
People were shouting and fighting each other .
He claimed that the youths from the opposition side led the violence .
The leader had prepared a donation for a Womens' group .
The group of rioters claimed to be sent by the opposition leaders .
A lot of goods and buildings were destroyed during the rioting .
Violent youths burnt down a truck with electricity poles .
Five youths were arrested and detained .
The angry youth looted goods from people's shops .
The opposition leaders denied the allegations of enticing the youth into violence .
He was arrested for leading the strike .
The leader denied all the allegations .
During the riot ,  the village chairperson was accidentally shot dead .
I can't believe even my sister can go against me .
The police were aware of the plot by the youth to riot .
Eighteen youths were arrested for leading the violence .
The affected town during the riot hosts the biggest number of refugees .
The riots began when the opposition leader was out of the town .
The leader was fighting for the rights of the people in that city .
The officers confiscate their merchandise and it's not returned to them .
On Sunday toilets are locked and vendors are forced to defecate in the open .
The city has allocated vending sites outside the town ,  but they rejected it .
The city enforcement team impounds goods from vendors .
It is unfair to evict street vendors ,  they don't have where to operate from .
Selling goods on the streets is the only way they can facilitate their families .
Vendors on the streets are ready to move to the new market .
The city authority took operations against street vendors operating illegally .
Poor planning of the city can lead to limited space for business .
A good leader should be exemplary in his administrative work .
The market vendors in our town formed a saving group last month .
One of the things that facilitate development of a place is good security .
The swearing in ceremony of the new district chairman happened yesterday .
Among the major challenges of the district is the poor health services .
One of the leaders of our town was in office for twenty years .
A man cuts his neighbor's hand after quarreling over their land boundaries .
Possession of guns without government permission is against the law .
The leaders signed a peace agreement to end bloodshed among their people .
Police arrested a group of youths who attacked their fellows in their neighborhood .
Residents attacked a rich man who attempted to grab part of their land .
Countries with poor leadership lag behind in development .
The minister of local government announced new cities this year .
Our village chairman is fair to all residents in the community .
The national anthem reminds Ugandans to stay united at all times .
The district committee organised a farewell party for the chairman .
The minister for health was the chief guest at the function .
A few years back ,  Ebola killed many people in northern Uganda .
I heard people saying that Ebola is spread by monkeys .
This disease spreads so easily from one person to another .
Some Ugandan soldiers came back from Congo with the disease .
People who died of Ebola were buried by specific people appointed by the government .
Lacor hospital in Gulu did a commendable job in treating Ebola patients .
The ministry organizes workshops aimed at improving health workers' performance .
Some diseases need people to be very careful to survive them .
The number of people who have tested positive for tuberculosis is scaring .
Signs and symptoms of some diseases confuse patients .
Some people confuse medical illnesses with witchcraft .
Health workers must attend to patients with proper protective gears .
People should observe personal hygiene at all times to be healthy .
Our school performed poorly in the national examinations last year .
Some students fail exams because of poor teaching methods .
Student strikes lead to destruction of schools' properties
The new head teacher in our government school has improved students' morals .
Parents are advised to look through their children`s work on visitation days .
All schools in our area received fifty desks from the government last week .
Schools dismiss some students because of their bad conduct .
The inspector appealed to teachers to show a good example to learners .
The school disciplinary committee punished a student for disrespecting teachers .
Schools are preparing finalists for next year`s national examinations .
The local council is doing everything possible to keep our village organised .
Traders are not comfortable with the rent charges in city markets .
The government has established modern market structures in big towns .
The city authority officers have confiscated the street vendor's properties today .
Business owners have several financial obligations to be fulfilled daily .
Three market vendors were arrested for undermining the orders of the authority .
The city authority has given vendors a two months grace period to vacate the streets .
Women vendors complained to the market officers about sharing toilets with men .
Sometimes the city council delays to collect garbage from the markets .
Markets need security guards to prevent thieves from stealing peoples merchandise .
The health officer advised all food stuff sellers to always keep their stalls clean .
The town council closed a number of markets because of poor toilet facilities .
Local market sells a variety of items at a cheaper price .
Local markets don't discriminate between the rich and the poor .
Most roadside markets lack enough parking space .
A market caught fire last year and destroyed people's merchandise .
People cut down a lot of trees for charcoal burning activities .
The environment authority has put down several buildings constructed in swamps .
The leader has put a lot of money in youths development activities .
The chairman led a group of youths who planted trees along the community streets .
Poor dumping of garbage causes damage to the environment .
The media exposes all bad activities people do to the environment .
Many fishermen use bad nets for fishing .
Farmers use swamps for agricultural activities like vegetable cultivation .
There is too much smoke from industries and vehicles ,  that pollutes the environment .
Nationals have planted many trees for commercial purposes .
There are environment clubs in several schools in Uganda .
The new bridge on River Nile is better than the old one .
People who use water transport are sometimes affected by the weather .
The ship to Kalangala Island makes only one trip per day .
Leaders face many challenges during their term in office .
Many people complain the money sent by the government doesn't reach in full .
Women have been trained in various income generating activities across the country .
Majority of people in Uganda grow crops basically for home consumption .
My friend uses tractors to carry out commercial farming in the village .
Leaders should tell people to have a saving culture if they want to develop .
The country still faces refugee problems in northern Uganda .
The youths can now make liquid soap after the training .
Banks offer loans to registering youth groups for development .
Proper planning yields success in business .
This has greatly reduced the insecurity in the region .
Some youths have invested their money in poultry farming .
The government has put much effort in promoting peace in the north .
A number of organizations have worked closely with Northern districts to help refugees .
It is difficult to develop without good financial knowledge .
Some people in Uganda don't know how to budget for their income .
The acquired skills have helped in improving people's standard of living .
Peaceful means of solving conflicts are better than force .
National corporation for water supplies clean water all over the country .
Most people in villages are still fetching water from wells .
The national corporation charges affordable fees for water connection and consumption .
Availability of water enables people to maintain proper hygiene .
Most individual work requires water supply .
Police firefighters' teams have several water collection points across the city .
The development committee has constructed bore holes across the district .
There was no money to pay the staff .
They protested because of delayed payments .
The police officer was also arrested .
The mob almost killed the officer .
He was knocked down by a lorry .
The incident happened before dusk .
The locals protested against poor service delivery .
The suspects tarnished the village name .
They were saved by the police .
The suspects are in police custody .
He denied having worked with the suspects .
The armed robbers worked at night .
They will be dealt with by the police .
Why was he taken to the court martial ?
The suspect looked apologetic .
They received treatment from a nearby clinic .
The lorry was carrying alcohol and drugs .
Production of waragi was banned in Uganda .
This was done to promote productivity in the community .
Alcohol possesses a threat to the health of others .
Police were advised to stay out of the matter .
The councillor educated the masses about the dangers of alcohol consumption .
Alcoholism is a cause of death amongst the youth .
The law was enforced by the policeman .
Confisticated items are kept as evidence .
The public should never take matters into its hands .
The accused will be taken to the courts of law .
They needed to improve the citizen's standards of living .
The laws are enforced in different districts .
The refugee camp is a threat to other settlers .
The camp lies north of the district .
Funds have been raised to support the refugee camp .
Some districts unknowingly host refugees .
More funds will be raised by the community for camps .
They were told to let go of the refugees in police custody .
They claimed to not have received any money .
The refugee settlement lies right next to the district .
Some people claimed it was a ghost settlement .
The camps require fresh water for the people living there .
The land was provided by the neighboring districts .
Government should provide resources to the refugees .
They confirmed the camp's presence via phone .
It was not a ghost refugee camp .
The refugees requested for better standards of living .
They also want food and clean water .
The officials will communicate camp needs to the government .
It is unclear when the refugees will settle in the camp .
The leaders are responsible for unity in the refugee camps .
A budget should be established to cater for the refugees .
The camp leaders are not on good terms .
The refugees request for a larger settlement .
The districts should handle their conflicts internally .
The leaders are responsible for community disputes .
Both districts need to settle down and reconcile .
The disagreements resulted from the unjust sharing of resources .
One of the districts broke out of the established union .
The division will affect both districts negatively .
They found a gun in one of the districts .
The gun belonged to the police officers .
It was used by one of the suspects for personal reasons .
The gunmen killed one police officer .
Leaders are advised to remain vigilant during these uncertain times .
The refugees have been warned to stay in Uganda for their own security .
Refugees with guns have been advised to surrender .
Officers will retrieve the illegal guns .
Refugees with guns will be dealt with by the police .
They have recovered three guns already .
The guns were received after they received a resident tip .
The community should fight against the use of illegal guns .
More teachers should be deployed in the refugee schools .
The teachers complained of excessive workload .
The teachers requested for government aid in the schools .
More teachers will be provided in the government schools .
More teacher transfers will be made next year .
Schools request for more teachers to handle the school population .
He said his school has over one thousand learners .
There is not enough accomodation for teachers at the schools .
A teacher will have over forty students .
More teachers will improve school performances .
Understaffed schools will receive more equipment .
The transfers were initiated by the government .
The teachers will receive support from major organizations .
They will collaborate with three new districts .
The project will start as soon as possible .
The program will promote access to safe education .
All groups will be taught irrespective of their backgrounds .
The refugee schools are congested with poor sanitation .
Violence is as a result of ethnic differences .
Schools should preach against sexual abuse and violence .
Teachers should promote unity in schools .
School going refugees should stay away from conflicts .
The project will solve conflicts between communities .
Teachers are advised to promote peace amongst schools .
Some of the residents were found guilty .
Residents requested for enough time to travel back home .
I was requested to address the congregation .
He pleaded innocent during the court session .
We do not know when the court session will be held .
They postponed the court session to next week .
She faxed the court today .
Investigations regarding the robbery case are still ongoing .
The police did not investigate the case  .
The number of lawyers is still low .
There is a need for more lawyers in Uganda .
Most workers feel overworked by their jobs .
They wrote a letter of complaint to the chairman .
More subcounties have been declared in Kampala .
Our subcounty has been developed .
Security guards were employed to protect us
I am very unhappy with the new leadership .
We have not benefited anything from his governance .
There is a lot of injustice in Uganda .
They refused to participate in the riots .
A new cabinet was appointed today .
We can not afford transport to the village .
My father went to the village .
They reported their family disputes to police .
The chairman called my family for a meeting .
They failed to agree all through the meeting .
His manifesto focused on equality .
We were availed with money to start up businesses .
The president told us to avoid mob justice .
We need our student identity cards to sit examinations .
The ballots are being counted .
I do not have a birth certificate .
Our parents were requested to submit our birth certificates to the school .
Some students did not submit their documents .
Some parents are illiterate .
He was arrested for impersonation .
We did not register for exams .
The director said we should all register before the weekends .
Many students will not sit for final exams .
Some students are registered as refugees .
He was advised to acquire refugee status .
The number of school dropouts is so high .
Parents are advised to support their children while in school .
Their birth certificates are nowhere to be found .
They complained about the loss of their documents by the school administration .
Students must be counted before the exam .
Parents were requested to clear the school fees balances .
The hospital stocked medicine .
The refugees were offered accommodation .
The visitors donated medical equipment to the hospital .
The equipment was registered by the chairman .
She was admitted in ward two .
The director of the hospital was so grateful for the donations made .
They were educated about reproductive health .
Girls were educated about mental health .
Many infants have lost their lives .
Refugees are seen as a challenge in some parts of the country .
There are high rates of maternal mortality .
Measures are being taken to curb maternal child mortality .
More health centers are to be constructed in my village .
People should carry out peaceful elections .
She complained about the poor working conditions .
They failed to agree upon what to do  .
There is a need to deploy security guards at the border  .
People do not know the border districts .
People carry out a lot of business at the border .
Some refugees were recruited into the army .
He signed a peace agreement after the war  .
They agree to hold the elections next month .
They requested to be excused from payment of taxes .
They purchased more building materials .
All workers attended a meeting chaired by their boss .
They threatened to strike over pay .
The students vandalized a lot of school property during the demonstration .
The student rioters were arrested .
All the classroom windows were broken during the strike .
Students requested administrators to listen to their cries .
They constructed a new dormitory .
A lot of students' property got burnt in the dormitory .
They requested the students to write down all their challenges .
The leader of the strike was expelled .
Parents should advise their children not to strike .
He was told to replace all the school property that had been vandalized .
They punished all chaotic students .
The board of governors met to discuss the penalties for the student rioters .
The government has built several schools .
Students were told not to litter the school compound .
They volunteered to sweep the streets this week .
My village is very clean .
More health workers should be employed in the hospital .
The number of health workers is so small compared to the patients .
The hospital can not accommodate very many patients .
We told the president about the poor health service delivery in our region .
Many people have limited access to clean water .
Doctors should treat patients in a respectful manner .
Doctors have not received their salaries yet  .
We earn very low wages .
They were given their monthly allowance today .
The district council put a ban on commercial charcoal businesses .
The council has failed to implement its resolutions .
District officials permitted the illegal cutting down of trees .
The district has provided people with trees for planting .
Some district officials do not attend council meetings .
The district will delay the payments of non-performing civil servants .
The district needs to recruit competent people .
The district has suspended the non-performing staff at the district .
Refugees lack food to eat .
Government has carried out a survey to find out the challenges faced by refugees .
The refugees have been given land to engage in Agricultural activities .
The district has established new education infrastructures .
People lack income to finance their business projects .
The district will solicit money from the government to improve service provision .
The government lacks finances to establish new infrastructures in the area .
The government has allocated funds for road construction .
Refugees have poor standards of living .
Refugees have no access to better medical services .
Girls in refugee camps lack sanitary pads .
Women have been given funds to boost their businesses .
Funds allocated for refugees were misappropriated .
The government provide finances to refugee hosting communities .
The district will monitor government projects in the area .
The district has registered people with business proposals .
The government will construct markets for the people .
The government will carry out road reconstruction in Moyo and Obongi .
The government will construct hospitals in the area .
Leaders should work together to effectively implement government projects .
Moyo district officials were assigned the task of coordinating government projects .
Obongi has become independent as a district .
Government should be fair in allocating equalisation grants .
Moyo and Obongi districts have conflicted over three billion shillings .
The ministry of local government should solve conflicts between Moyo and Obongi .
The officials should work together to enhance service provision in their respective districts .
The government established refugee camps  .
He comes from Moyo district .
The government introduced Universal primary education in the area .
The district education officer informed primary schools not to promote poorly performing pupils .
Universal primary education will improve on the quality of education services in the area .
Some students will be promoted on probation .
Pupils don't read when they are given automatic promotion .
Thirty six candidates got first grades in the primary leaving examinations .
Teachers are not focused towards equipping learners with knowledge .
Schools will promote pupils who have a decent performance .
The district lacks qualified teachers
Teachers do not complete the school curriculum .
The district education officer has failed to monitor schools in the area .
Pupils are not well fed at school .
Teachers should give students daily tests and exercises .
Pupils should be promoted on merit .
Moyo general hospital is not well facilitated .
Moyo general hospital lacks capacity to provide health services to the increasing population .
Moyo hospital lacks beds to admit patients .
Moyo general hospital was rehabilitated in two thousand seventeen .
Moyo general hospital should provide health extension services to the people .
The hospital lacks medical personnel to handle patients .
There are increasing cases of early pregnancies in the district .
Girls face complications during delivery .
Moyo general hospital lacks medical equipment .
National Medical Stores is inconsistent in providing medical supplies .
The government has warned against discriminating against people with disabilities .
People with disabilities have acquired capital to set up their own businesses .
District officials are united .
The district organised a conference to equip skills to the people with disabilities .
The disabled acquired skills in carpentry and welding .
The disabled started their own businesses .
The district aims at improving the standards of living of the people .
People with disabilities acquired income from welding ,  tailoring and hairdressing .
Disability is not inability .
People with disabilities have improved their standards of living .
People with disabilities have become self dependent .
People are working towards achieving social economic development .
People with disabilities have been given sponsorships .
The government should establish a specific budget for the people with disabilities .
The district has encouraged technical education in the area .
District officials were warned against accepting bribes during the national identity card registration exercise .
Only Ugandan citizens are eligible to receive national identity cards .
Refugees will not receive national identity cards .
The district officials took bribes in the national identity card registration exercise .
The identity card registration exercise was extended to people's homes .
Ugandans should register for national identification cards .
Some people have not received their national identity cards .
Eighty nine percent of the adults received their national identity cards in Moyo district .
Refugees conflicted with the people of Moyo over land .
A birth registration exercise will commence to ease the acquisition of national identity cards .
The district officials have failed to cooperate with refugee leaders .
Refugees were registered in the national identity card registration exercise .
District officials should involve people in decision making .
District officials have failed to implement district plans .
District leaders should resolve conflicts between the refugees and the hosting communities .
Moyo district hosts two hundred thousand refugees .
District officials have not been involved in the implementation of refugee development programs .
District officials have laid plans aimed at ensuring rural transformation .
The district lacks enough funds to implement developmental projects .
The chief administrative officer has failed to ensure transparency in implementing refugee programs .
The district lacks enough funds to regulate its projects .
Refugees lack a stable water supply in the refugee camps .
Car theft is rampant these days .
Countries have entry points at the borders .
Why are people's cars stolen ?
We can easily identify a car by the help of its number plate .
Where is the source of inspiration for young women and men ?
Some cultures limit women on what they should do .
As a result of education ,  women have now risen to great positions of power .
My sister graduated from university with a first-class degree .
Everyone can make a difference in life irrespective of their background .
Housewives dedicate most of their time for family .
How is a typical rural setting like ?
My brother loves milking the cows .
We go to school to attain education .
In the past ,  some children would go to school barefooted .
Garden crops are watered .
Eating yesterday's leftovers may not be good for your health .
There are different activities one can do to get money .
Police arrested residents for their unlawful actions .
Sugar ,  salt ,  soap are some of the items commonly used in a homestead .
Sick patients need to be cared for .
A student's report card indicates their academic results .
In almost every examination ,  there those that pass and those that fail .
Some people academically excelled in school .
Usually ,  the best students stand a chance of winning themselves scholarships .
Wars are a hindrance to development .
Elections initiate leaders into positions of power .
Wars often result in massive deaths of people .
An attempt to kill yourself is not a solution .
Most of the religions we have in Uganda were introduced by the missionaries .
The government of Uganda offers scholarships to students joining University .
Some graduates are lucky enough to get jobs soon after graduating .
One can switch work from one organisation to another .
The education journey continues even after your bachelor's degree .
Under what conditions can one get a promotion at work ?
What are some of the roles played by the administration ?
Some of the government officials in Uganda are just appointed into office .
Dedicated people are most likely to get what they want .
The top-performing academics are awarded for their hard work .
Wildlife attracts tourists into the country .
Researchers ,  professors and other experts write journals .
Traffic police officers ensure efficiency on the roads .
Traffic regulations are available to guide road users .
Every motorcyclist and car driver must have a driving permit .
Motorcycle riders are encouraged to wear a helmet while on the road .
Penalty tickets are issued to those that have disobeyed traffic regulations .
Uganda Revenue Authority is in charge of collecting tax revenue in Uganda .
We wrote a statement at the police station after the theft incident .
All road users must obey traffic regulations .
Drivers and other road users should avoid overspeeding .
For a school to operate legally ,  it must have a license .
Unlicensed schools shall be closed .
We have international schools in Uganda .
The ministry of education authorises the national curriculum for schools in Uganda .
Children have a right to education .
Police act to any form of rebellion and violence .
What causes hostility in people ?
There standards that schools should meet to operate successfully .
The curriculum is essential for the education sector .
A letter of notice gives information about something .
Computer usage is one of the lessons taught in schools these days .
Students that pass exams are promoted to the next class .
Teachers follow a given syllabus while teaching .
Some schools were forced to cease operation .
A headmaster heads the school .
Some students dodge classroom lessons .
Police vehicles help them in deployment .
Pit latrines should be properly maintained and located .
Some schools continue to operate without a license .
What procedures does one have to go through to get a license ?
Government aided schools are supported and financed by the government .
An operating license legally permits anyone to carry out any activities .
Anglicans believe in God .
Who is behind the idea of splitting the diocese ?
It is the role of the secretary to record minutes of the meeting .
Some churches are administratively managed .
Christians go to church on Sunday for prayers .
The bishop usually delegates certain responsibilities to the archdeacon .
Dreams can be realised .
Communication is essential .
We can now access a lot of information via the internet .
Both the bishop and archbishop serve in the church .
How long has the diocese been in existence in Uganda ?
The bishop is responsible for the Anglican church .
In Uganda ,  there is freedom of worship .
When people get married ,  they form a family .
Investments usually yield returns .
The bishop must approve any kind of church contributions .
Schools are inspected to see whether they meet education standards .
Church land should not be encroached on .
Most landowners have land titles .
Christians believe that Jesus Christ is the son of God .
Let each one of us plant a tree in his or her compound .
Trees make the compound look green and beautiful .
Members of the congregation strongly believe in their pastors .
In Uganda ,  we have church founded schools .
More employees were recruited .
He served us selflessly during his term of office .
Efforts to support refugees are being undertaken .
Religious leaders always appreciate the donations people make .
They donated food to the needy .
The water has not yet been purified .
Many people can not afford basic needs .
More money has been allocated to disaster preparedness .
Uganda houses very many refugees .
There was a national blackout .
We need to resort to renewable sources of energy .
This is a dry season .
There is an intermittent power supply in Uganda .
We can not rely on only one supplier .
We have not had electricity for three days now .
They complained about the insufficient power supply .
Measures are being taken to improve the power supply in Uganda .
There is a lot of wastage of electricity in Uganda .
People use electricity for cooking .
Some transformers need to be serviced .
The entire power line needs to be serviced .
The fire was caused by electricity .
The whole region has no electricity .
We hope to have electricity again .
We need money to extend electricity to remote areas .
They received more money .
The president promised access to electricity throughout the country .
The chairman did not attend the event .
All the staff members agreed to go on strike for five days .
All the absentees were recorded .
Only the top administrators were invited to the conference .
All projects were closely monitored .
Leaders disappointed their voters .
There are very many corrupt officials .
Many workers did not turn up for the workshop .
The campaign rallies were violent .
The roads have many potholes .
The director was requested to call for a meeting .
He did not fulfill his manifesto .
They have tarmacked that road today .
The vendors were very happy about the renovation of the market .
This is the busiest market in Uganda .
We are in the final phase of the project .
Very many people benefited from the project .
The government has not yet responded .
There are very many market vendors .
The market is really congested .
The market vendors said they had many challenges .
The market got burnt .
The vendors have no access to clean water .
There is a need to expand the market .
The market was cleaned .
Ugandans are always happy when they see white people .
Heis father was murdered .
He died yesterday morning .
He will be buried tomorrow .
The mob was very violent .
He lost his identity card .
Mob justice is condemned .
We should always be peaceful .
We need to take care of ourselves .
The police ensure that every Ugandan keeps law and order .
They were advised to settle the disputes .
Many people were robbed last night .
The thieves were arrested .
The congregation had many Congolese .
His car was stolen .
They bought more cars today .
People should be sensitized about the penalties of theft .
Security in towns and villages needs to improve .
All thieves should be reported to police .
The thieves were sentenced to death .
Human trafficking has increased .
Investigations about the stolen cars are still ongoing .
Many people turned up for the meeting .
People's cars were stolen .
We have access to clean water .
The water standards were approved by the National bureau of Standards .
People should maintain personal hygiene .
The project has finally been funded .
The laboratory test results are not yet out .
The hospitals need more testing equipment .
Drinking unclean water causes water borne diseases .
Typhoid can cause death .
Refugees have access to health facilities .
Some boreholes need maintenance work .
We do not have access to clean water .
They are suffering from typhoid .
More laboratory equipment has been purchased for the hospital .
Refugees should feel at home .
Refugee camps have been constructed .
Some people fetch water from wells .
Other people fetched water from the lake .
The sermon was very touching .
He preached about the love God has for man .
They made outreach to all prisons .
The guest house was constructed last year .
My mother is expectant .
There is an ongoing football competition .
Many religious leaders attended the event .
The first half of the match is almost ending .
Some players did not come for football training .
My team hopes to win the match .
He was injured during the second half of the match .
The team lost several matches .
They were the winners of the netball trophy .
Our team is composed of players from all regions .
Most players on the team live in Northern Uganda .
Other players live in Kampala .
They elected new regional leaders .
Leaders should be requested to account for the funds they received .
He is involved in multiple projects .
The president shared his objectives during the term of office .
Arua has the largest number of refugee camps .
He did not meet my expectations .
The road was tarmacked .
The government is accountable to the public .
There is a need to construct a hospital in my village .
We are following up on the issue .
Students are the main beneficiaries of the project .
People face many challenges everyday .
They migrated with their cattle .
Pastoralists complained about being neglected .
Many ministers attended the event .
The pastoralists were very unhappy .
The president agreed to help pastoralists .
They complained until they got what they wanted .
Their complaints paid off .
The cattle do not belong to him .
There are many immigrants in Uganda .
The postponed the deadline .
They were sensitized about animal diseases .
The animals were evicted .
The workers were harassed .
We are advised to be kind to each other .
They went to the village .
They are researching the disease .
The patients were given their test results .
There is a malaria outbreak in Uganda .
The infected people are being treated .
Many people died of malaria .
The cause of the disease is still unknown .
Many animals died yesterday .
The animals were buried .
Anthrax affects animals ,  as well .
Some animals only feed on grass .
Many animals died of anthrax .
The animals will be vaccinated tomorrow .
There was disorder in the church .
The chairman has been impeached .
They were sent to court .
He was asked to defend himself .
He failed to defend himself .
The hall was locked .
They did not communicate about the meeting time .
The venue of the meeting has not been communicated .
The vice-chairperson chaired the meeting .
Everyone wanted him to be impeached .
I want to start a business after working for five years .
The meeting venue has been communicated .
He was requested to sign in the visitors' book .
People were very hungry .
The meeting has not yet begun .
His speech was very interesting .
The manager laid off all his workers .
He was denied access to his office .
All his company contacts were blocked .
He accepted to stop working .
I was unhappy about my suspension from work .
More money has been invested in farming .
Refugees should be empowered .
Agricultural projects will be funded .
The workshop was held last week .
Muni University has organised a students' workshop .
Farmers need to be guided .
More land has been provided for farmers .
There are very many refugees .
Cash crops are very profitable .
More trees have been planted .
They planted more trees .
The farmers purchased more seedlings .
He advised the farmers to practise mixed farming .
Farmers made good harvests this year .
Refugees were advised to practice farming .
They invested more money in poultry farming .
The project commenced last month .
Farmers were advised to start sowing since it is a rainy season .
The football league started today .
The team suspended its coach .
The team was disappointed after the home loss .
A winning football team makes its supporters happy .
The new team manager is determined to win this year's trophy .
The team didn't perform well in the previous season .
Most football teams have signed new players to improve on their performance .
Uganda has many groups of people speaking different languages .
Cultural leaders organise cultural exhibitions annually .
Culture shapes people's behaviours in the community .
It is a good thing for someone to know more than one language .
Parents should teach girls how to prepare their cultural food .
Local languages are one of the best-performed subjects in schools today .
Church leaders planted over two hundred trees in our area .
Cultural music has a lot of educational messages .
Uganda has exciting cultural dances performed by different tribes .
Our cultural music attracts tourists from different countries to Uganda annually .
A lot of talent was displayed by different people that day .
The visitors praised our various traditional foods they tasted .
Culture doesn't exclude age: young and old attended the music festival .
Old people have a stronger belief in traditional culture than the young .
Everyone who attended the event ate food until they were satisfied .
Most traditional musical instruments are made from tree stems and animal skins .
There are a few musicians in Uganda with a traditional voice tone .
The local music groups presented many items compared to the visiting teams .
Every culture in Uganda in Uganda has its own dressing code .
One of the local contestants performed five songs in one stage appearance .
It is natural for people to appreciate their cultures better than other cultures .
The Ugandan music industry has a variety of music styles .
Parents sponsor their children to learn various western musical instruments .
Many whites have learnt how to play our traditional musical instruments .
Various Ugandan musicians have done shows in different countries .
The rate of criminal cases has greatly increased in the district .
Police have arrested a man for stealing his neighbour's cow .
Thieves attack many people on their way home .
Police have played a big role in reducing the crime rate in the country .
But where do thieves get the guns they use in their operations ?
It is so worrying that the majority of criminals are youths .
Thieves have different instruments to break into people's houses .
Some people employ private security guards to watch over their homes .
The government should put security lights on all roads to reduce crime .
Local leaders work jointly with police in fighting crimes in communities .
The army recovered many guns from local civilians in the Northern region .
Many people lose their lives because of armed robberies in the country .
The government has done enough sensitization on sexually transmitted diseases .
The government allocates enough funds for health services every year .
Some patients don't complete their treatment doses .
Most people go to medical centres when their sickness is serious .
Organizations work closely with the health ministry in controlling the spread of diseases .
The pandemic has made it difficult for some patients to pick treatment .
Many people fear to do tests for some killer diseases .
On following the doctor's advice ,  he has lived longer with the diseases .
Many children in the country are orphans because of this disease .
The number of people living with the virus increases annually .
Patients in rural areas find it hard to get drugs .
Female youths are at a high risk of getting the virus .
Some health centres lack enough testing items for the virus .
Once you start taking these drugs ,  you do it throughout your life .
The national medical store has few branches in the country .
Many people have ignored the control measures of sexually transmitted diseases .
Local leaders have organised many seminars for the youth about the virus .
Journalists were given skills on how to capture news during political rallies .
Many journalists encounter challenges while covering the news .
This is the third time he`s being arrested for car theft .
Car theft is very rampant in the country these days .
Many stolen cars were rescued by police last year .
He gave police a full list of his partners in crime .
Uganda revenue authority keeps a record of all vehicles in the country .
Owners of the recovered vehicles are pleased with police efforts .
Some stolen cars are broken down and sold as spare parts .
These thieves apply many tricks in stealing people's cars .
Some cars are stolen in public places like bars as owners are drinking .
A certain vehicle stolen in Uganda was found in the neighbouring country .
He was one of the best musicians in Northern Uganda .
Indeed ,  he was a man of people and a good person .
His fans will always remember him .
He was thirty-one years old when he died .
Before his death ,  he sang many songs in his language .
Most of his songs had educational messages .
Some musicians sing songs that provoke others to quarrel with them .
The minister called upon musicians to always live an exemplary life .
He loved and respected other artists in all ways .
He has left a legacy for the people of Uganda ,  especially in the north .
There are few gospel artists in the district .
It is on special occasions that most artists go for church services .
Many secular musicians claim to be Christians .
Many people copy the behaviours of musicians .
The concert has attracted many international artists .
The cultural minister is ready to support the visitors throughout their music tower .
A troupe of Ugandan cultural dances performed in America last year .
Afrigo band is the most experienced instrumentalists in Uganda .
This year ,  many music shows have been cancelled due to the pandemic .
Artists make a lot of money from international tours .
The government organises national music competitions for schools annually .
Several international artists have performed in Uganda .
Ugandans are so welcoming and take good care of visitors .
Music can unite people of different cultures across the world .
The leader was so pleased with hosting Americans in his area .
Currently ,  there are many music schools in Uganda compared to previous years .
Most solar systems are no longer functional .
She is eight months pregnant .
She has not yet given birth .
I experienced severe labour pain .
There is a high mortality rate .
She did not make any antenatal visits .
Many expectant mothers died yesterday .
Parents should always give their children career guidance .
All mothers gathered at the parish .
Every family member should play their role .
My father will return home next year .
Many men disrespect their wives .
Men were called upon to support their wives .
Family members should work together to promote peace and harmony .
A new men's association has been formed .
I have been praying from the same church since childhood .
The organization comprises both men and women .
The road will be tarmacked next month .
We enjoyed the entire journey .
The government has allocated funds for road construction in our region .
New road signs have been put along Masaka road .
There are very many heavy tracks on the road .
The church is very far away .
We have been complaining about the potholes since last year .
She was knocked down by a motorcycle .
People are being tested for malaria .
The health centre is open every day .
The doctors work every day .
Many patients were admitted last week .
The health centre is being renovated .
More money was donated to renovate the hospital .
There isn't enough medicine in the pharmacy .
Children were taken for immunization .
The laboratory lacks testing equipment .
The hospital hired more nurses .
More doctors are needed in our region .
We were advised to go for regular health check-ups .
We were advised to obey the law at all times .
The constitution has been revised .
The chairman called for a community meeting .
He told us to work towards eliminating poverty .
The chairman asked us for our challenges .
We were advised to boil water before drinking it .
Many youths are venturing into agriculture .
The youth wrote a letter addressing their challenges .
All candidates were urged to conduct non-chaotic campaigns .
We failed to find clean water anywhere .
Students are advised to participate in sports activities .
He spends most of his time at school ,  playing football .
The students are scared of examinations .
Many children have access to free education .
The school budget has not been shared .
The headteacher gave the opening remarks .
More money has been invested in sports activities .
Most schools are overpopulated .
The school needs more funds to sustain the students .
The headteacher banned sports activities .
It is very costly to conduct a sports gala .
Our school won the football tournament .
She was sentenced to death .
He bribes the magistrate .
The suspect of the theft was arrested .
He was then taken to court for a hearing .
He pleaded innocent but was imprisoned .
His father was murdered last week .
Mob justice is highly punishable .
She is very sober .
Her mother watched her die .
She was knocked down by a car .
They announced his death on every radio station in Uganda .
The construction works have begun .
I am very good at swimming .
She drowned in the pool .
The swimming pool area is very unsafe .
She visited her auntie yesterday .
They are planning to construct a bridge .
Some people lost their lives in the building that collapsed .
The construction of the school has taken so long to be accomplished .
Most patients have been discharged .
Most hospitals are dilapidated .
He was requested to pay for the medicine .
She can not afford to pay for antenatal services .
The hospital is indebted .
We should help the needy .
The project plan was shared with me .
The chairman advised us to apply for loans .
We are fundraising to build a school .
There are very few schools in my home village .
The government sponsors some students .
The headteacher called for a staff meeting .
The school budget was discussed .
All schools said that they needed more funding to feed the students .
Some money was granted to us .
There is no hospital in the whole district .
People love access to free resources .
Sometimes things do not turn out as we expect .
He made a very fair and just decision .
It is the responsibility of parents to take care of the needs of their children .
Your money is safer if kept on the bank account .
What is your occupation ?
That piece of land is privately owned .
The fence around our home helped reduce the number of intruders .
Investments help us generate revenue .
Members of parliament represent different regions of the country .
Money is necessary for development .
The old buildings in our school were demolished .
Waterfalls attract tourists .
I want to tour the northern region of Uganda .
We visited historic sites at the Uganda museum during the school tour .
People move long distances to see interesting things .
Some historic sites have existed for thousands of years .
If you believe in yourself ,  you shall achieve big .
Be aware of the environment around you .
Long ago ,  foreigners created colonies in Africa .
What are some of the tour sites in your area ?
The doctor advised her to eat a balanced diet .
Malnourished people are more prone to diseases .
Projects take a given period of time to be implemented .
What causes some students to perform poorly in schools ?
The new orange sweet potatoes are very delicious .
How can parents improve their children's nutrition ?
You should eat energy giving foods .
What are the symptoms of malnourishment ?
I usually take deworming tablets every month .
Expectant mothers should be very mindful of their diet .
My children shall have to attend the best schools in Uganda .
Foods rich in vitamins help improve our body immunity .
Farmers sell their produce to the market .
Small plots of land can be used for subsistence farming .
Training equips us with more confidence .
Energy-saving stoves are commonly used in schools of late .
Politicians are important people in society .
Who is in charge of planning for the upcoming wedding ?
Our meeting shall be held next month .
I think it is disrespectful to walk out on an ongoing meeting .
Meetings help us come up with necessary resolutions .
Employers like to hire competent workers .
Leaders are elected into office to serve the public .
The decision made was to transfer our headteacher to another school .
I have a right to support what I feel I want .
Let us avoid illegal ways of doing things .
All the participants rightly followed procedures in the contest .
Moody people are easy to deal with .
People are fond of betraying others .
How can we enforce justice ?
We were given two weeks to appear before the court .
Teachers play a vital role in our society .
I want to learn to read and write in my local language .
Teachers use lesson plans during the teaching process .
Teachers that teach in government schools are on the government payroll .
Children are taken to school to learn how to read and write .
Training programs have been set for all teachers to attend .
After the performance evaluation ,  some workers were fired .
Good performers should be awarded as a way of motivating them .
Training helps to shape our skills .
Happiness is a choice .
Pupils write their notes in exercise books .
How can one create a successful business ?
Citizens of every country have an obligation to pay taxes .
Transport costs have hiked so much during this season .
Higher transport costs could lead to increased costs of production .
It is not that easy to cross a river .
God answers our prayers .
Some decisions are made on behalf of others .
How long does it take to construct a bridge ?
The manager declined the engineer's contract because his work was unimpressive .
Report theft cases to the authorities .
Business people import products from other countries and sell them to locals .
You shall find most of the shops in the trading centre .
Traders are free to import or export their products .
How can we promote international trade ?
Goods entering into Uganda are first checked at the border points .
Everyone should care and love foreigners .
Businesses successfully grow in a secure environment .
Why would people mistreat others ?
Rice grains are eaten as food .
Uganda has several neighbouring countries .
Business people enjoy the profits from their businesses .
Middlemen in business usually sell at a higher cost compared to the original .
I go to the market on Saturday to buy foodstuffs .
I negotiate with the shop attendants to save money on shopping .
We have many immigrants in Uganda nowadays .
Idle resources should actively be put to use .
Income-generating projects are beneficial to society .
Some resources never serve the intended purpose .
What is the value of computer training to youths ?
Some machines are too complex to be understood by the users .
There is flooding in Moyo district .
People have been left homeless .
People do not have food to eat .
The leaders should provide humanitarian aid to the people .
The government should construct a dam to control the high levels of water .
The floods have destroyed people's property .
People are at risk of disease outbreaks like malaria .
People have no clothing to put on .
The government will register the affected people and furnish them with aid .
The high levels of water in the Nile brought about the flooding .
People refused to vacate the areas near the river bank .
Some people vacated after being affected by heavy rains .
The district lacks finances to enhance service provision .
The district needs to carry out road reconstruction .
The district leaders are looking out for solutions to improve the transport network .
Uganda national roads authority is effective at road construction .
The government should increase the income allocated towards road construction .
The district lacks finances to carry out road reparation .
The government should increase the funds allocated to local governments .
The district lacks funds to maintain road equipment .
District leaders brought the ministry of transport on board to improve road transport .
An army officer defiled a fourteen-year-old girl .
The soldier impregnated the girl .
The police are investigating the case .
The family of the girl wants justice to prevail .
The army officer has portrayed a bad image of the army .
The soldier will be charged in the court-martial .
There are more cases of defilement in the area .
Security officials manipulated the case involving the army officer .
The soldier was deployed in another district .
The police submitted the report to the inspector general of police .
The criminal should be arrested .
Parents reported the case to the offices of the Uganda people's defence forces .
The army will carry out investigations to complete the file .
The soldier will be brought before the unit disciplinary committee .
The youths are the leaders of tomorrow .
The people of Moyo protested over bad roads .
The district has failed to improve the road networks in the area .
The district commissioned the construction of two main roads in Moyo district .
The government allocated thirteen billion towards road construction in Moyo district .
People cannot access health and education services because of poor roads .
Leaders should ensure transparency in the management of resources .
People in the area will acquire employment opportunities .
The ministry of works carried out surveys before commencing road construction .
Local governments should work together to improve service provision in their areas .
The district leaders will monitor government projects .
Leaders should work hard for the good of society .
The construction companies will recruit people from Moyo and Obongi districts .
The workforce should be effective and efficient .
The government purchased an ambulance for Moyo district .
The ambulance was handed over to the hospital administration .
The people of Moyo district were hospitable towards the refugees .
People treat each other like brothers and sisters .
The people of Moyo district provided land for the refugees .
The district health department should use the ambulance to enhance health services in the area .
The hospital has been equipped with health equipment .
This hospital provides health care to most of the people in the area .
People no longer walk long distances to access medical services .
People should not use the ambulance for personal interests .
The district leaders will be held accountable for the misuse of the ambulance .
People have strongly opposed scientific campaigns during the coronavirus pandemic .
The electoral commission directed the candidates to campaign using media and social media .
Opposition candidates do not have the finances to advertise on television stations .
Politicians asserted that media campaigns deny people the right to access accurate information .
Opposition candidates have been denied access to media stations .
Elections are not free and fair .
The electoral commission did not consult stakeholders when portraying the election road map .
The area is limited to only two radio stations .
Politicians claimed that media campaigns are not effective .
The system of media campaigns helps only the incumbents because they are popular .
Politicians are discontented about the system of campaigning scientifically .
Politicians advocate for postponement of elections until the coronavirus pandemic is under control .
The scientific system of campaigning prevents politicians from reaching the common people .
Some politicians have vowed not to follow the electoral commission guidelines .
Parents have married off their daughters at a young age .
The district should organise conferences to inform the girl child about sex education .
More people got pregnant during the lockdown .
Parents should protect their children from bad peer groups .
Two hundred eight girls got pregnant between January and May this year .
Girls engage in sexual activities at a young age .
Children should get involved in business activities during the lockdown .
Children will acquire different skills during the lockdown .
Parents should involve children in productive activities like farming .
District leaders are worried as many girls are likely to get pregnant .
Parents should advise their daughters about the importance of abstaining from sex .
The district leaders will send sex education messages to the girls .
The government has increased security at the border .
The government aims at eradicating criminal activities in the border areas .
The soldiers should cooperate to ensure peace in the area .
The army has been able to stabilise Uganda's borders .
Three people were killed in action by the Uganda people's defence forces .
Uganda should work with its neighbours to ensure peace in the region .
Uganda exports its goods and products in neighbouring countries .
Leaders should reconcile for the good of the community .
Cooperating is better than fighting .
There is unity among the people in Moyo district .
All student leaders had leadership training yesterday .
Soldiers were called upon to maintain law and order .
All East African presidents had a meeting today .
The policemen apologized about their brutality .
He advised us to resort to peaceful demonstrations .
We were all tested for tuberculosis .
The number of malaria patients is high .
Malaria is common among youth .
She has been under self-isolation for a week .
All employees were tested for diabetes .
We were told to avoid crowded places .
He emphasized that we should wear our masks .
He encouraged us to adhere to all the security measures .
They decided to conduct a medical checkup .
She has just recovered from malaria .
People will be arrested for disrespecting the presidential directives .
The policemen were very merciless .
He died of malaria .
People dislike wearing masks .
She was arrested for not wearing a mask .
There are many coronavirus disease cases .
We are advised to sanitize as much as we can .
We were very happy when the lockdown was lifted .
Police officers are meant to arrest criminals .
We didn't register for the event .
We washed our hands at the entrance .
Many parents did not take their children for immunization .
All children must be immunized .
She was not immunized at birth .
Some health centres do not immunize children .
Parents should protect their children .
Parents should be sensitized about the importance of immunization .
Children suffer from immunizable diseases up to today .
Many people are scared of contacting cough .
Immunization is supposed to be free of charge .
The leaders donated masks to children above eight years .
Many children were immunized this year .
Parents were told not to pay for immunization .
Sensitization on immunization will be conducted next week .
More deaths have been registered today .
The patient was requested to clear his hospital bills .
All refugees were requested to register .
All immigrants were tested for yellow fever .
They were taken into isolation .
There are very many community coronavirus disease cases .
The company registered some coronavirus disease cases .
There was no positive malaria test today .
We should be sensitized about communicable diseases .
We are all at risk of contracting the disease .
Many people do not sanitize .
Doctors are doing their best to prevent the disease from spreading .
Many people have died of malaria .
They gave discounts to every buyer .
Accountants donated clothes to the orphans .
They were very kind to us .
They also donated foodstuff .
They donate foodstuff every year .
We should support the orphans .
Very many people volunteered to visit the orphanage .
A new babies home is being constructed .
The children were very grateful to all people that donated food to them .
There are may babies homes in Uganda .
Most children are in babies homes lost their parents .
Some children in babies homes are refugees .
Some refugees are depressed .
Religious leaders always support orphanages in various ways .
My father was arrested for raping our neighbour .
They beat the thief to death .
He denied his daughter food .
Everyone has equal human rights .
Some women are really brutal .
They asked the magistrate to be fair .
They reported the murder case to the police .
The students complained about the unfairness of their headteacher .
There are very many criminals in Kampala .
Many men mistreat their wives .
The last court session will be held today .
The government distributed ambulances to different districts .
We were told to register at the entrance .
Most of the roads have potholes .
The ambulance needs to be repaired .
More hospitals were constructed to enable easy access to health services .
They are fundraising to buy an ambulance .
The company hired more vehicles .
The vehicle was serviced yesterday .
We expressed our grievances during the meeting .
There was no medicine at the health centre .
His vehicle was not insured .
We should respect our elders .
Democracy should be practised at all levels .
A new minister of health has been appointed .
He spoke to me arrogantly .
We were all checked at the entrance .
Animals lack enough water .
There was a time when the water level in Lake Victoria was reducing .
Arua has a poor water supply system .
Uganda signed a convention to mark the world wetlands day .
Most of the countries ratified the convention .
Encroachment on rivers will result in their drying up .
The cost of a jerrycan rose from two hundred to two thousand .
The government will gazette the wetlands of Enyau river .
The ministry of water and environment will demarcate most of the wetlands in Arua .
The leaders should enforce environment conservation laws .
Wetlands control flooding .
Wetlands help to purify water .
Human activities have discouraged the movement of water through these wetlands .
People should be informed about the importance of wetlands .
The national environment management authority should emphasize afforestation .
People have encroached on most of the wetlands in Arua district .
The district has improved on the supply of water in the area .
Drought in Arua district brought about the scarcity of water in the area .
Northern and West Nile regions experience drought from November up to march .
The government of Uganda has allocated income towards wastewater treatment .
National water and sewerage corporation is establishing a water management project .
Water reservoirs have been established in the area .
National water will expand water supply by seven million litres a day .
National water has increased in the size of underground water pipes .
Arua attaining its city status will come with several developments .
The president promised the people of Arua a city status during campaigns .
Most of the water projects will be completed in two thousand eighteen .
Roads have been damaged during the installation of water pipes .
The contractor followed legal means and procedures .
The ministry of lands opened up its regional offices .
People can no longer access loans from the banks in this Christmas season .
People should register their land with the ministry lands .
People will be given land titles after registration .
The ministry of lands delayed opening its regional offices .
People were excited about the opening of the regional lands offices .
People will be able to apply for loans because they have land as security .
People have been saved from the cost of travelling to Kampala to register land .
People were going to incur a lot of expenses registering land from the capital city .
The government should allocate funds to the needy .
The government intends to eradicate chronic poverty from the country .
The government allocates twenty-five thousand shillings to elders every month .
People engage in agricultural activities to get money .
People have engaged in business activities to acquire income for survival .
The ministry of health should carry out health extension services to the people .
The district is not effective at monitoring and coordinating project activities .
The government will provide support to the elders .
People wanted to be present at the nomination of the president .
People lack the income to meet their basic needs .
People rely mostly on the support they receive from friends .
The lady is a staunch national resistance movement supporter .
The president acquired support when he returned the people of West Nile from exile .
The resident district commissioner will forward the requests of the people to the president .
There are conflicts among districts in West Nile .
The conflicts will be solved using the colonial map to demarcate the districts .
The district officials vowed to solve the challenges faced by the people in society .
The district leaders had a meeting to ensure peace and stability in the area .
The conflict has led to the destruction of people's property .
Every district was represented by five elders in the meeting .
The parliamentarians promised to follow up the matter .
Peace will prevail in the districts .
Some people lost their lives in conflicts .
People should follow the law .
People should have respect for people's property .
The parliamentarians will obtain the colonial map from the ministry of lands .
People should respect the outcome of the boundaries within the colonial map .
The leaders asked the police to release the people arrested in action .
They should use negotiation skills to avert the problem .
People should be united and embrace the spirit of togetherness .
Elders have called for stability and order in the area .
The conflict has been ongoing for years .
The conflict has encouraged robbery and theft .
People have nowhere to sleep because their houses were destroyed .
Some people want to grab other people's land .
People have engaged in fish farming .
He has been under house arrest for twenty days .
The district leaders should solve the problem as soon as possible .
People in West Nile engage in agricultural activities .
People's businesses have been destroyed amidst the prevailing conflicts .
People's lives have been affected .
The police should keep law and order .
The leaders emphasized people to ensure peace in the area .
The bible says that love your neighbour as you love yourself .
People should come together and support the affected families .
Leaders have encouraged people to work together .
People should give the elders a chance to resolve the matter .
The ministry of lands should hold peace talks among the district leaders .
There is poor security in the area .
The police should deploy more police officers in the area .
The police are committed to defending the border area .
The leaders will hold the final meeting about the matter .
The district leaders will represent the views and opinions of their people .
The leaders want to resolve the matter peacefully .
The planted signpost by the Koboko district chairman in Maracha escalated the conflict .
The government provided support to the people affected by the fire outbreak in Maracha district .
Four hundred people were affected by the fire outbreak .
People in rural areas use grass for roof their houses .
The government donated relief items to the refugees .
The minister donated food to the vulnerable .
Landslides swept through our neighbouring village following a heavy downpour .
Police are investigating the cause of the fire .
Physical distancing can prevent the spread of coronavirus disease .
Village leaders will be responsible for distributing the resources .
The organisation over the weekend distributed relief items to landslide victims .
He diverted the church funds to personal use .
Children and the elderly will benefit from government donations .
The woman leader urged the organization to donate more relief items to refugees .
Floods destroyed people's homes .
My noisy neighbours are ruining my life .
Fire outbreaks in Uganda normally occur at night .
The police dispersed the youths in the trading centre .
Thousands of people crowded his compound after his release .
People within and outside the district moved to his home on hearing his arrival .
The president requested people to pray from home because God is everywhere .
The officers urged people to stay home to avoid the spread of Coronavirus .
People who were moving during curfew hours were brutally beaten by police officers .
Catholics all over the world are reciting the holy rosary throughout this month .
Two years have passed since the holy pope visited Uganda .
Praying and fasting yield miracles to Christian believers .
My brother has been a church choir member for ten years .
The woman leader informed people about protective measures of the coronavirus .
There is a water shortage in our home area .
It is our neighbouring country .
How can we stop the spread of the Coronavirus disease in our country ?
Large crowds and crowded places should be avoided to prevent the illness spread .
People in that district have a problem with water accessibility .
Women and children walked for a long distance to get clean water .
A new borehole is under construction in the town trading centre .
Coronavirus infections have increased in Uganda .
The government donated free food to the people during the lockdown .
District leaders were ordered to repair boreholes in their areas .
Hand washing is one of the ways to prevent the spread of the virus .
The district engineer promised the availability of water in all areas by next year .
Due to the coronavirus outbreak ,  all entry points into the country were closed .
Non-Ugandans who tested positive for corona were sent back to their respective countries .
Refugees from neighbouring countries are free to come into Uganda .
Every year ,  thousands of people flock into Uganda illegally .
We have thirty-four confirmed cases of the disease from our country .
Two health workers tested positive for the virus .
International organizations are training health workers on how to handle infected patients .
She said: all the health workers require knowledge and skills to protect themselves .
Health workers will receive free transport to health centres .
Laboratory assistants are unsung heroes during the pandemic .
Health workers need to know the prevention and treatment of the virus .
Hospital cleaners are more exposed to the virus .
Antenatal care helps women to prepare for delivery .
Everyone should wear a face mask .
That hospital director has organised care training for all staff members .
The district task force didn't have enough funds to train all health workers .
At least two hundred people have been left homeless after fire destroyed their homes .
There is a high risk in the spread of infectious diseases .
The fire started around midnight .
The cause of fire outbreaks at schools is not known .
Some of the houses built in Uganda are of poor quality .
Fire spreads easily between closely spaced thatched buildings .
Local leaders should not be blamed for the fire outbreaks .
There is unity among people in our community .
People need basic needs to survive this tough season .
The government has donated iron sheets to the affected people .
The district leaders have not given any support to the fire victims .
The fire burnt down my neighbour's house last week .
The poor electrical wiring caused the fire in the building .
A lot of people's properties were destroyed in the fire .
Some people got injured by the fire .
The firefighters' team tried their best to save some items .
The landlord has advised his tenants to use authorized electricians in the wiring .
His neighbours helped a lot in stopping the fire from spreading .
Police have arrested all unauthorized electricians in the community .
Several buildings in this community have caught fire this year .
They allocated less money to the city last year .
Our district leader is so committed to serving the people .
The district has built new classrooms in all government schools in the community .
Salaries of civil servants have been raised during this financial year .
The district committee has urged traders to pay their license fees on time .
All council meetings have been postponed due to the pandemic .
The pandemic has greatly affected this years' district service delivery .
Due to the pandemic ,  the ministry allows only two hundred people in the church .
All committee members should wear face masks to prevent the spread of the virus .
The financial years' budget will be ready next week .
The district budget is mostly funded by the business people .
The district has advertised new jobs in the newspapers .
The government collects over seven hundred million Uganda Shillings from taxpayers annually .
A portion of this money is spent on improving health services .
Government funds talent developing activities in schools .
All schools are to participate in the district music competitions without fail .
Sports activities in our school are done in the second term .
Teachers play a greater role in training pupils in sports activities .
Our sports teacher has been transferred to the neighbouring school .
The district sports team reached the finals last year .
We are expecting a better performance in this year's sports competition .
It is important to sensitize the community against conflicts .
They need to observe the sabbath day .
They have not been paid like other regular soldiers despite the services rendered .
They are not considered for loans yet other soldiers can access them .
Their only vehicle was not replaced last year .
The government is reluctant to provide them with adequate security .
Their colleagues died in vain because to date nobody has ever been arrested .
There is discrimination in that school .
Security circles fear that the former rebels might be lured into bad activities .
Nothing has changed apart from the venue .
They accuse the government of not providing the support they need .
They are sent upcountry for an operation without prior notification .
No help is given to their family when they die .
The government does not seem to care about orphans .
There is prolonged detention of prisoners .
They have always been subjected to hard work .
Many of the prisoners are waiting to appear in court .
The prisoners remain hopeful that they will be released one day .
To date ,  the teacher has not been released .
They provided recommendations on how to treat the prisoners .
They wanted to change the working environment of the teachers .
It is important to work hard in school .
We shall formalize their job descriptions .
Students should review their work every day .
We need to improve the current security situation .
Prisoners need the freedom to see their families .
Their response to security threats was remarkable .
Both families should be helped by the government .
The government should act now to end gender-based violence .
Muslim youths meet at least five times a day during prayers .
Government should come up with a program to engage the youth .
The package given by the commission was too small .
The foreign funders are willing to help the refugees .
The government should be able to help the orphans .
The children have been misunderstood .
The government should come out to sort out the confusion .
Mankind should put an end to war .
Some of the contents contained in the document were not terrifying .
This may cause clarity on the current situation .
The soldiers were denied loans .
Nothing has changed apart from the venue .
The group needs to be penetrated to know their plans .
They can be responsible for disciplinary actions .
Former reporters will be allowed to operate in the country .
It is important to find out whether all the members of this group are genuine beneficiaries .
This will help to get rid of pretenders in the school .
The board called me back for an interview .
One thought that my decision to leave at that time was not wise .
There is no error I have made simply because I have never made a decision alone .
We have worked together with my employees .
Given an opportunity ,  what would you do differently ?
The first step was to share the profits in the savings group .
I think one hundred to one was not a very wise deal .
My view is that our share price should have been ten to one instead of one hundred to one .
There are decisions which the company took at the shareholder level which I think were not wise .
Why are you leaving when the company is making profits ?
I was involved in forming that organization .
The losses which we made last year are expected .
The losses are arising out of a major investment in the oil sector .
In businesses ,  it is expected to make losses .
We expected to make a loss this year in the business .
Wont you miss the party ?
The organization has made profits in the last season .
We should be able to compete very well in the market .
What were your best memories in school ?
What has been your management style ?
I have invested a lot of energy and money to make sure that we have good employees .
First ,  I make sure I have a team to compete on Saturday .
We should ensure that we work as a team .
I try to work out and keep fit every day .
Why are retiring from the job ?
The company requires a change in management .
l have a vision of what I want to do .
Many people think retirement is about accumulating money in the bank .
I do not believe people who think of accumulating wealth as a means of happiness .
I am retiring without that accumulation of wealth .
I have invested a bit in tree planting .
You are accused of killing off your competitors .
To be honest ,  I do not think our competitors can manage .
They do not motivate their workers .
Many of their employees have left the organization .
If our competitors are too jubilate ,  they will be making a mistake .
They brought bonds from the bank .
The bank has plans to issue another eighty billion shillings for bonds .
The technology allows faster mobile Internet connections .
Investment club group members should always work together .
To qualify for the prestigious award the bank was rated on key performance indicators .
It is important to have information sources for making investments .
It is not liable to pay stamp duty in Uganda .
He should address the common misunderstandings in the company .
The job of the leader is to understand and bear with the competitions .
Managers should be able to find a market for their products .
Competition is always good for businesses .
There should be interaction among employees in a business .
Industries are always different but they all aim to make money .
The structure of organizations is important .
Companies should be able to make profits at the end of the year .
Software companies are always profitable .
The structure of industries drives competition and profitability .
Several factors can affect the profitability of textile industries .
There are several underlying factors that led to the collapse of the company .
The demand for oxygen in hospitals is overwhelming .
The manager should understand the structure of his company .
The layout of the organizations is always different .
The attacks should not happen again .
It is good for us to always be together .
We are also different in the way we think .
The wrong groups should be sent to prison .
Some things that happen in Nansana should be respected .
We should always rest our minds at night .
It is not right to kill someone .
He has experience in the banking sector .
There is a need to have good communication skills in the organization .
It is good to always have peaceful elections .
Presidential term limits were removed from the constitution .
Right now elections have no real consequences .
The Electoral Commission has lost trust because people do not trust it .
A political party should always have strong candidates .
The people in power should be very kind-hearted .
In many counties ,  people are restricted from participating in political campaigns .
The army always has many enemies .
There are many lost souls in the world .
This situation should not be allowed to happen .
The youth will lead the reconstruction programs in the county .
You will work hard on roads and farms when rebuilding this nation .
There is a big task ahead of us to be completed .
Some irresponsible members have worked to tear apart this party .
The young woman was kicked out of the marital home .
We heard patrol soldiers approaching our house .
The soldiers asked if there were people in the house .
The car suddenly stopped when a cow was crossing the road .
I was walking to the new building where I lived .
She was rescued by another group of soldiers and taken to hospital .
The area was on high-security alert because of the recent crime in the area at the time .
Her attackers were never arrested to answer for their crimes .
She has never gotten justice .
There was still a heavy presence of soldiers in the town .
I could not just sit back even though I knew the area was insecure .
The soldiers left the town yesterday .
She was rescued by the patrol police late in the night .
The minister always has a story of hope to tell the people .
Uganda's overall disease prevalence rate has been reduced .
The success in disease prevention is due to the hard work of the doctors .
In northern Uganda ,  the increasing violence against women has been reported to the police .
Some districts in the north still have disease infection rates .
Nine percent of women in Northern Uganda are farmers .
Girls as young as three years old and women of all ages always work very hard on the farms .
Her story has never been told to the public .
The loss of her two children to the war brought about her mental damage .
She tested positive for COVID nineteen .
My husband knew about the crime but he never said anything about it .
We walked for thirty miles to get the medicine .
I have a young girl at home but she should be in school .
They can not raise four hundred thousand shillings for an operation .
Women who are victims of war crimes hardly get attention from policymakers .
Many voters know that there will be real change after the election .
The presidential term limits should be restored .
There is high voter alertness yet the performance of the public sector is extremely poor .
The mayors generally extracted fewer rental fees in the city .
The mayors have supported the street vendors in the city .
After getting the operation ,  her husband accepted her back .
He realized I was not going to die .
He took me back in the house although we continued to sleep in separate rooms .
The economic powerlessness of the victims makes the situation very hard .
She also provides some services to victims of sexual violence .
Make sure you take the child for immunization .
Why should he limit his time in office if he can afford to stay longer ?
Democracy is always an interesting topic to discuss .
The medicine was provided by one of our sisters .
There is an increase in the number of people currently using social networking sites especially Facebook .
We need to talk more often about maternal health .
Her husband had a similar test yesterday .
She says her in-laws did not take care of her .
The disclosure of her health condition cost her the marriage .
The husband chased her from the house four years ago .
She wrestled with the loss of her marriage .
Many accident victims suffer from broken legs
Women have to always take good care of their health .
I work with local council leaders and police to follow up on the criminals .
It is good to have peaceful elections .
In this country ,  people rarely talk about politics .
On voting day ,  people turned up in large numbers .
The election campaign and voting proved to be largely calm .
There was a great sense of relief that this election was concluded .
The impressive level of organization was seen throughout the election .
The elections were well organized .
Technology was used everywhere in that school .
The Voters Register has a total of fifteen million voters .
The appointed dates for elections include weekends .
The purpose of the display exercise is to enable voters to confirm their names in the register .
The names should be spelled correctly in the registrar .
We should confirm that our photographs were taken correctly .
These people should report to the headmaster for a meeting .
All the cattle have been sold from the farm .
These students are non-citizens .
The students are under eighteen years of age .
The priest belongs to another parish .
The lawyers appeared many times in the village .
The purpose of the exercise is to enable people wrongly recommended for deletion to object .
Any person who was wrongly recommended for deletion has to report to the parish leader .
The parish leader shall make the final decision concerning any such recommendation for deletion .
The general public should also note that the display process should be transparent .
Fresh application for registration as a voter shall not be accepted during this display exercise .
This is a very important exercise that could determine whether you vote on polling day or not .
One hundred duplicates will be sent to respective polling stations for confirmation .
Four political parties are encouraged to participate in this voting exercise .
He acknowledged that opposition parties can generate debate in an election .
The opposition must suggest alternative policies to the government .
We should not base political competition on the personal issues of individual actors .
We should base political competition on new programs and ideas .
The president and his party rejected the opposition's suggestion .
There is a need for electoral reforms to stop vote rigging and ensure free and fair elections .
Probably the commission is good at handling the complaints .
The contention has mainly been on the way the electoral commission members are appointed .
Two of the four elections were conducted under a multi-party system of governance .
The opposition parties have been calling for a change in the procedure of appointing their leaders
Their proposed reforms will provide a level playground for all actors .
Appointed members of the commission are selected by the parliamentary committee .
The presidents of the Political Parties discussed the matter .
It is not the president who gives them employment .
The president cannot remove them from office .
No political party will claim to be left out during elections .
The parties complained that the government has an unfair advantage over other people .
The judges upheld the election results saying the outcome had not been affected .
The elections were not free and fair .
The price of beer is cheaper than any local raw material here .
Beer is often consumed more in the evening .
What is the business logic of importing beer ?
Roads should be constructed with genuine materials .
The company is looking for local content to buy quality products .
We can only develop locally if we start by do not buy imported raw materials .
This will grow the industry and benefit a lot of people .
The main challenge we are facing is in distributing our products to all corners of the country to serve our loyal customers .
The cost of fuel is high and yet the roads are very poor .
How are you resolving these challenges in the oil and gas sector ?
These challenges are affecting the general business community .
Like the private sector ,  we are doing everything to improve the connection of Kampala to the port of Mombasa .
We are aware of the work going on in Kiboga .
The process is too slow and we are not sure if this will address our transportation issues adequately .
More needs to be done to improve the general road infrastructure .
We are working on systems that improve efficiency in the transport sector .
We are also educating our staff on the need to save energy .
How are you dealing with the growing competition in the beer industry ?
The competition is not only on beers but the entire beverage sector .
We are committed to creating a new experience in the textile market .
I think it is now very common to hear adverts about possible tour opportunities .
The true quality offered to the consumer is actual .
You have also seen the response in the market with regards to sugar-free beer .
Some brands are now being imported into the Ugandan market .
Sugar-free beer has been able to create a positive perception with the consumers .
I am very happy that our brands have exited the market .
We promise not to disappoint our quality-loving consumers .
The quality of our products remains our guiding principle .
East African Breweries Limited recently acquired a company in Tanzania .
This puts a lot of expectations on the Ugandan market .
The advertisements are bearing positive returns for the company .
It is a good opportunity for those with established businesses to tap on .
We are at the moment when a small player has dominated the market .
We are watching the match between the greatest boxers .
The current protocol on the free movement of vehicles will change next month .
The earlier protocol on traffic structure had a more impact on Boda Boda riders .
Certain goods should immediately be sold off .
The larger market leads to a more vibrant economy of over one hundred million people .
The harmonization of the customs tariffs in the region will finally be achieved .
I think the impact ,  in the long run ,  will be tax reduction .
What innovations came out of Nile Breweries last year ?
We have introduced new brands which are made using local raw materials .
This is targeting our consumers in the bracket that cannot afford the expensive products .
The new product has been designed carefully .
We have offered the product at a modest price to benefit the target market .
What is your management style ?
At this years event ,  different companies will compete for eleven awards .
The bank objected to the assessment under the Income-tax Act .
Interest on agriculture loans is always tax-exempt .
The bank challenged the tax bodys assessment of agricultural loans .
The court ruled that interest on loans to persons who export coffee is not exempted from Income Tax .
A tax exemption is only granted to persons engaged in growing crops .
Domestic sales went up six by percent last year .
The company said an improved operating environment will boost their sales .
The cigarette maker said it would start exporting tobacco soon .
Smoking is usually harmful to the lungs .
The first annual communications awards were launched last week .
The awards are categorized into three to cover the diversity in the sector .
Award participants included service providers and academia .
The winning firm will benefit from getting the quality award .
The consortium comprises sixteen telecom operators .
The investment was two hundred million United States dollars .
The Super League received fifty-three million shillings .
Over the same period ,  the league needed at least two billion shillings to run .
The eighteen league teams needed on average one hundred million shillings apiece .
A Super League game always has twelve players .
Individual soccer lovers contribute the biggest chunk of the needed funds .
The availability of funds depends on the financial status of their charitable organization .
This uncertain situation has not gone unnoticed by football administrators .
He says long gone are the days of amateur football .
He has foreseen a situation where football clubs have become investment opportunities .
Super League has become a professional football team .
This company will obtain all the necessary equipment needed for the match .
The other sixteen ordinary shareholders will be part of the main club .
The number of teams in the Super League has been cut by half beginning next season .
The number of teams in the Super League will be evaluated in the next season .
The club licensing process shall consider several important factors .
The aim is to give rise to football clubs that are professionally run .
The most obvious avenues he cites for increasing financing are through sponsorship .
Building partnerships with corporate bodies is important .
Face-to-face meetings between students and supervisors have enabled progress in the study .
He believes an end will be achieved through reorganizing the organizational heads .
Sponsorship is one of the biggest sources of financing football clubs around the world .
The Uganda Super League has reaped from this source only recently .
The league season is worth four million United States dollars .
The deal was accomplished by the world's financial players .
The new arrangement aims to attract many more competitive grants .
In all cases ,  the government has not reacted firmly .
In some cases ,  it has offered the wrong intervention to the problem .
The delegates decided not to elect a new regional leader .
The culprits included his wife and his sister .
Why are the children fighting every day ?
The idea appears to be driven by the need to create a new constituency .
He sustained a deep cut on the head during the fight .
Violence and election rigging were exhibited during the previous elections .
Why were senior party leaders fighting and threatening each other ?
They know that they go through the party primary elections .
It is survival for the fittest right now .
The solution for the violence lies elsewhere other than the political party structures .
The players are irresponsible and greedy .
He said part of the reason for the delay is due to inadequate funding .
The government has rejected all the proposed electoral reforms .
The records show that the party has sunk into bribery .
A pattern is emerging about areas likely to see election violence .
The areas with powerful ruling party officials will win the election
In other areas ,  the National Resistance Movement functionaries are too powerful to lose .
As a former Member of Parliament ,  he was expected to give up on the reelection .
It is unclear how he will handle the COVID-19 situation at this time .
He killed one person and injured two during the accident .
He is serving a jail sentence for robbery .
He went to court ,  but the police claimed the evidence was insufficient .
The current ministers have run election campaigns characterized by serious violence .
The individuals involved were not brought to court .
No action was taken against the culprits involved .
The country will be pushed into another era of political instability .
Several politicians have since been involved in the violence .
Several people were killed as a result of violence .
He warned about fighting between the two families .
He has warned that he is ready to fight whoever wants to fight .
The post-election violence was a sudden reaction to the election rigging .
People were targeted based on their ethnicity .
Politicians were the people that society most looked up to .
A few other tribes have also picked their leaders .
He was perceived by the public as a good candidate
He had been selected to be president to lead the football team .
However ,  he tried bravely ,  some might say naively ,  to exercise his executive powers .
This idea was welcomed by the residents .
These politicians insisted that they would contest in the general elections .
It is clear that this job will not be sustainable .
It is a closed chapter because we have no answers .
If he committed to authoring a book ,  it would have been a worthy read .
Even though he had a sharp brain ,  he did not write any book .
He left the world with little beyond his many jokes ,  and funny observations .
The daughters of the deceased looked on .
There is a need for those who knew him closely to share his thoughts and what he stood for .
An army was deployed outside the market to handle the riots .
He was presented with the challenge but did not resist it .
He stood in at a time when the nation was about to tear apart into a failed state .
The idea was welcomed by the board members .
He has accumulated a lot of wealth through his company .
The professor is very brilliant .
What does it mean to accumulate wealth ?
The Nairobi site was selected as the headquarters of the Uganda railway .
The first hospital buildings were erected last year .
There are many languages spoken in Uganda .
Some languages are well documented .
There will be having meetings with all the students .
Every student's proposal is different .
Things are done differently in every university .
We should develop generic guidelines for supervision .
The supervisor has to approve the Ph . D .  research .
Toe measures the degree to which the vehicles wheels are pointed in or out .
The car was repainted last year .
One should ensure that they have the necessary skills sets when applying for the job .
Data collection is always a very tedious activity .
Students should be able to carry out independent research .
Discussions should be done healthily .
Gaps should be filled when a player is not able to attend the match .
The candidate needs to prepare sufficiently for their exams .
The company has been invited for the promotional avenues .
The defects in the car should not prevent you from driving .
Wheel alignment is key for tyre life and car stability on the road .
We should always take feedback in good faith .
Acknowledgment should always be given to the sponsor .
Donors give warning remarks over corruption .
Many people will be hosted in a large groundbreaking activity .
There are huge drinking water tanks on all four corners .
The first aid tent should be enlarged .
Youth volunteers would keep combing the crowd looking for the young ,  the elderly ,  and the disabled to take them to more appropriate places .
I hope you keep entertaining our President .
The opposition helps the western donors who give them money .
The opposition has to learn to take the little advantages offered by these donors .
Reach out to them despite all the roadblocks .
Go to every parish screening every single candidate for the upcoming elections .
What has befallen our Members of Parliament ?
We have heard of some legislators breaking a government institutions regulations .
I just wonder what kind of image these legislators are showing to the youths .
There will be no delay in funds disbursement .
Those found guilty of unfit behavior should be held accountable for their actions .
I think it is time we all said enough of the violence and dishonorable behavior of members of parliament .
Mr .  President ,  save us from forced removal .
We suspect that certain standards have not been met by the developers .
Your people are at risk of forced eviction without another shelter .
We believe the meeting will allow us to come up with a clear understanding of the regulations .
This kind of situation discourages further investigations and lowers all independent thinking .
There was a highway robbery in Masaka .
It is up to him to make the workers keep their faith in him .
I was asked to pay six hundred thousand shillings as a court fine .
Milestones will guide the successful implementation of the project .
Flexibility should be allowed per institution .
Conferences are good for the students .
It would be strange if that lady stands for a member of parliament .
The two did not know each other before that race
When should we provide you with our bank account details ?
They used special keys to enter the bank .
He told them the Generals home was not the right place to kill him .
Institutions insist on different regulations during elections .
Students should be able to report back to school in time .
This story raises more questions than it answers .
Traveling costs have to be incorporated into the project .
After one bullet ,  the crowd dispersed .
The behavior of the assassin sounds extremely unskillful .
Why aim for the stomach instead of the head when boxing .
The head of intelligence would not call personally to direct such a mission with a stranger .
He would use his workers to get the job done .
He would then prompt the killers to come out themselves .
Were the police statements released ?
The other two suspects denied any involvement in the shooting .
The two struck a good relationship right from the start .
Where do you live ?
My wife studied there for five years .
I know him very well .
We are family friends .
I know him ,  his wife ,  and their children .
They are like family to me .
It was an Isuzu double cabin pickup with upper case number plates .
The airlines charge a lot of money .
The supplier has brought the internet .
The movie theatre industry is growing in Uganda .
The template is still a work in progress .
The next forty-eight hours are important for the patient .
Individual discussions are needed with each student .
No comments were allowed during the meeting .
Meetings longer than two hours should be avoided .
In such a situation ,  coping with the substitute product becomes the number one key priority .
The industry structure has changed a lot since the COVID-19 lockdown .
The COVID-19 test turned out negative .
The residents have complained about the noise from the quarry .
Locals are engaged to deal with pressing issues such as early pregnancies and early marriage .
The film industry is picking up in Uganda .
The documentary was shot during the day and people can see themselves on the big screen discussing issues at night .
The excitement that builds in the audiences arising from locals watching themselves is simply unbelievable .
Then comes the time when the audience is called to participate in on-the-spot skits using diverse techniques .
The company was advised to make payments early .
The trauma of the two-decade-long war effects is far from over .
The money was allocated at the right time .
The communities have been empowered with agricultural skills .
Young children need to always keep their minds fresh .
Putting all these elements together gives them a chance to listen to the campaign managers .
It creates a lasting effect on the participants as opposed to lecturing them classroom style .
Women empowerment is one of the goals in the organization .
Sustainability is key to company success .
People should be trained in honey-making skills .
Try to fill the fuel tank when you have a long journey .
If your fuel runs low ,  the engine might not receive a steady supply of fuel .
The tube that connects to the oil tank is leaking .
Not having a steady supply of fuel will make your engine perform lesser than it should .
Slow down while driving in hilly areas .
The faster you move ,  the harder your engine has to work to push the car through the wind .
Drivers should accelerate their cars smoothly .
When the light turns green ,  resist the urge to move faster ahead of the car next to you .
This keeps the engine at lower revolutions per minute thus using less fuel .
Car engines usually are most efficient at low revolutions per minute .
Plan your route carefully .
The ambulances were deployed at the hospital .
Take the route with the fewest stops and turns .
Take highways instead of city streets when possible .
Avoid braking wherever possible .
Braking consumes more fuel than driving at a constant speed .
Drive in neutral when you see a red light or traffic jam ahead .
Highway speed cars get better distance coverage with the Alternating
Driving with windows at high speed reduces fuel efficiency .
Find your cars manual .
Some cars get better mileage at specific speeds ,  like fifty miles per hour .
Each car has a maximum speed .
All the cars will be inspected at the border .
Use natural oil in your car to save on average five percent gas .
Change it according to your vehicle manufacturers recommendations for oil .
Extending oil change intervals can be harmful to the life of your engine .
If you cannot use a natural oil ,  choose the lightest oil possible .
When getting your oil changed ,  use a natural oil additive .
The border patrol police have to check all the passengers .
Fuel cards were provided for the ambulances .
The passport renewal office is now open .
Do not turn the car engine off .
Overdrive saves you gas mileage at higher speeds .
This places the engine at a more efficient operating point by reducing choking losses .
Learn to watch and foresee traffic signals .
Stop and go driving is wasteful .
It is good to keep a safe distance when driving .
You will brake more and accelerate more to keep that dangerous narrow gap .
Relax ,  everything shall be alright .
The ambulances have to serve the entire western region .
The hair oil has helped to avoid all the itching .
How often do you use the hair treatment ?
Everyone needs to understand their hair journey .
Herbal oils can also be used in tea .
Herbal oils can be used for massage .
There are several hair types .
Each person needs to understand their hair type .
When shopping ,  one has to ensure that they fit within their budget .
We should try to finish our work on time .
The oxygen tanks are all empty .
Ambulances should be equipped with oxygen .
In this situation ,  ambulances are very necessary .
Have your say during the election .
She gave sound reasons but was disappointed in her conclusion .
He is studying to confirm whether they are withdrawing a planned move .
They were surprised to see the president smiling ,  and waving his cap .
It is unusual of him to do this work .
I would like to show this by examining the main issues .
Further criticism was put on the other presidential candidates .
Foreign commentators are guilty of many shortcomings .
The country has a history of discrimination and violence .
I would like to show this through a quick examination of the main issues .
The debate about the countrys leadership has been conducted earlier .
It is hard to have children concentrate in online classes .
The National Revolutionary Movement for Development had been removed .
It chose to stick to harmony and lead the formation of national unity .
These steps were taken to build a system based on oneness politics .
It had no plan of choking other actors and occupying political space .
It chose to ignore popular opinion together with other parties .
Use history to build a functioning multi-party system .
The meetings have been held online .
The objective is to fake unity about how to move forward .
What happened in the political arena as a result of unity among the elites .
Admittedly some have fled over the years .
Two parties have agreed to settle the matter .
Recently ,  other political groups have fulfilled the strict requirements .
Political groups have been registered as political parties ,  now they are ten .
It is split into competing groups .
As a result ,  he could not contest in the presidential elections .
Two other groups are seeking to register .
Popular media have decided to label these three parties .
They have failed to ask whether the decision is permanent or uncertain .
The country has a functioning and state-funded forum of political parties .
All registered parties ,  with or without representation in parliament ,  participate .
Its aim was to ensure that parties without representation have their own space .
It shall make their views on important issues known to Parliament .
Until two thousand six ,  political parties were stopped from opening branches .
Nor do they bother with another supposed fact .
Today ,  one can see party flags flying high at local offices .
The party flags are a sure sign of grassroots party activity .
I have run into them in academic forums ,  across the globe .
There are three things to remember here .
The party's control by the state entered every aspect of peoples lives .
It had a victory and an army that had come to be viewed as strong .
Its members fled before the eyes of the people they controlled for so long .
The countrys recent history renders the notable sign of fear expected .
The country has been engulfed with fear .
His house was misplaced among the multi-roomed properties behind the high fences .
A house is the dream of almost every adult Ugandan .
Up to fifty-eight percent rent and the rent in Uganda is very high .
Only twenty-seven percent rent main house units .
Rent goes for far less as one moves away from prime locations .
However ,  rent is still higher than elsewhere in the region .
That is where the desire to own a house starts .
This method is laughed at as old-fashioned .
Real estate developers want income earners to run to the bank for a mortgage .
One buys the plot and builds at their pace without pressure .
The downside is that few people can raise the cash required to put up a house .
The build and sell section of the housing sector had seen major growth .
The unreasonably high prices have created a surplus over the period .
The favorite way offloading houses built through mortgage financing is now popular .
Mortgage products are hidden ,  slow to process ,  and unsuited to the market .
Most of them are self-employed .
Prime Ministers and Presidents Office share part of the resettlement cash .
They got to find out the arrangements through the media .
The survivors wrote four petitions to the Prime Minister .
Being resettled in Bunambutye was unacceptable due to the harsh climatic conditions .
We are not sure of their cooperation with us .
The land was also experiencing floods and crops like cassava were rotting .
The resettlement exercise will start two weeks after the tour .
The government wants to construct simple houses for the victims .
The first phase of resettlement begins in September .
Ten billion shillings were put aside to handle the resettlement .
The telecom firms charge one another for cross-network calls .
The Commission informs the public that interconnection rates shall be applied as default .
Most of the mobile telephone customers are on the Safaricom network .
The telecom giant gives better rates to call within its network .
The target was to discourage calls to other networks .
It controls about sixty percent of the market share .
They would pay higher charges per call .
A call is delivered at a point of interconnection in the zone indicated by the called number .
The near-end termination charge applies to calls delivered to a point of interconnection .
Basic transit shall be the termination charge for the respective destination .
The charges will be uniform .
The interconnection fees stayed high .
The campaigns enable customers to call within their networks at big discount rates .
The eighty-three minutes of call time are between six in the morning to six in the evening
Calls on other networks would be charged at three hundred forty shillings .
Mobile Telephone companies have increased tax on the internet .
Most people will not afford that tax .
This has pushed Ugandans to acquire multiple sim cards to benefit from low call rates .
She carries three mobile phones in her bag ,  each for a different network .
This is the best way to keep call bills low .
She only loads airtime on the line she wants to use at a particular time .
On her part ,  she has got sim cards for all networks .
She has only one mobile handset .
My friends just need to alert me and I switch to their preferred line .
Promotions resulted from stiff competition among the telecom companies .
Which calls for more creativity .
Do you have a Warid line ?
The promotions apply only to subscribers and are short-term .
The flat mobile telephone call rate is three hundred forty shillings .
Kenya's currency is still higher than Uganda's currency .
Uganda's currency has dropped over the last six months .
There is nothing yet to show for it in terms of tax reductions .
It has earmarked one hundred million United States dollars to expand its network .
The interconnection fee for mobile telephone calls is one hundred thirty-one shillings .
The government also charges a thirty percent tax on mobile telephone calls .
He did not give details about the robbery .
The robbery occurred last night .
After taking a while without reporting ,  the officer was disarmed .
The Joint Anti-Terrorist Task Force car was never recovered .
Six percent of Ugandans cant afford clean water .
We are investigating the tree planting project .
We have shillings two hundred million for education on coffee production .
One hundred million shillings was set aside for disaster preparedness .
about five hundred left their homes and took refuge in camps .
Reaction from the locals to coffee revival has shown new challenges .
We should sign a memorandum of understanding to borrow money and machinery .
A metal detector is run across the passengers body and luggage ,  searching for explosives .
But there are fewer passengers than usual noticing his calls .
Yes ,  people are traveling out of the town ,  but those coming in are few .
As suspected bombs are reported in the news ,  the situation is not safe .
I enter a local clothing shop and speak to the woman manager .
Customers are scared and their numbers have reduced .
If things continue in this way ,  our businesses will collapse .
We have to pay rent ,  transport ,  buy lunch yet we are not earning .
Roads are being repaired by the ministry .
People are not buying as they were before the bombs killed people .
We hope things will soon improve .
Few people on the street and for once it looks clean .
People are following the police`s advice of being alert .
Kampala City Traders Association is a group of different traders operating in Kampala .
When the bombs went off ,  business declined .
The impact has long-term effects .
The bombings have also shaken local relationships in the marketplace .
Customers would buy goods from me every day .
After shopping ,  ensure that you pay for all the fruits .
It is now difficult for business owners to continue this practice .
They do not know why all the cows have disappeared .
Everyone in the village is suspicious of the other .
The impact has spread to the rural areas .
The economic impact is being felt in several places .
These businesses have been closed since last year .
The collateral damage that occurred is difficult to put in monetary terms .
Only the owners of these places know how much they lost .
Even the businesses surrounding these areas are feeling the impact .
The prisoners were very traumatized .
The business community counts its losses .
What were the challenges during your time as Chief Executive Officer ?
The biggest challenge was low output especially of Mangalore tiles .
We could offload three hundred tiles yet a house takes three thousand tiles .
We overcame that big problem because one can now buy the tiles off-shelf .
My first instinct in management is to have people do a job .
I have built a strong and dedicated team of young professionals .
Most of my top managers are in their forties .
My second contribution has been on strategy .
We have a very good strategy in defeating this line of business .
We make very heavy clay products .
So to beat a market you must move closer to the customers .
Kenyans are wealthier than us yet they do not have good tiles .
What is the worst decision you ever made at Clays ?
I was fifty-four years old when I got married .
After my retirement ,  workers went on strike ,  the situation worsened ,
We are dealing with people who have no respect for human life .
I have never seen a sitting president arrested by the host country .
He wrapped a blanket around himself to keep him warm .
The boat was rescued by the fishermen .
The boat was damaged on Lake Kyoga as they were fishing .
The water patrol rescued the fishermen .
Four people survived by holding onto pieces of the boat wreckage .
It is tragic to lose lives to water accidents when they could be avoided .
What happened to the governments regulation to wear life jackets ?  .
There should also be water traffic officers to control water transport .
But will that work given that even the road transport is not any safer ?
Lets get a little more serious .
This means the boat was in a dangerous mechanical condition .
There should be contingency measures to stop this natural hazard .
Nobody including knows how many passengers died or were in the boat .
This puts his capability and business acumen to the strict test .
Now his toughest challenge is to live up to the task .
Getting there may be easy but staying is very difficult .
The operation included police and court bailiffs .
The impounded car belonged to the wife of a city businessman .
Kampala City Council vends plots for shillings one hundred thousand .
He presented a list of only forty-nine properties .
This is not the first International move over ill-gotten money
Most of this money is stolen by public officials .
The public sector should understand the challenges holding companies back .
Many challenges have come up under the Customs Union .
The private sector wants to understand the implications of such challenges .
The new market has been launched last year .
Businesses at the borders are very frustrated .
The market has to be expanded .
What is your style for successful management ?
Their approach to advocacy ,  and doing business is quite interesting .
When do you start your day ?
The bank recorded a forty-five percent increase in interest income got from loans .
The banks operating income ,  the amount of profit from operations grew by forty percent .
Without the additional week ,  turnover would be eleven point one percent higher than last year .
Growth on a like-for-like comparison was four point eight percent .
The deal was not successful .
There were very many people involved in the deal .
It is difficult to meet all your goals in a year .
How to negotiate anything with anyone anywhere around the world
This guide provides readers with the information to negotiate with skill and ease .
Organized by region ,  the book delivers detailed business profiles of each country .
It offers valuable insight into the fine points of negotiating .
Conducting business in a foreign environment is always challenging .
His insights will prove invaluable in any setting .
Negotiation is a key skill that we need to have .
Children need to be guided as they join a new school .
It is important to know the ability of a child .
When wheels are misaligned ,  it causes the tyres to wear out quickly .
This leads to unnecessary expenses on tyre replacement .
Misaligned wheels cause problems with the stability of the automobile .
It also causes problems with steering and maneuvering .
All these issues make wheel alignment important .
Tyres that need replacing can cause safety issues for cars .
Even wheels that do not require replacing can still cause issues .
Drivers must take measures to maintain their wheels and tyres .
Many people confuse wheel alignment with wheel balancing .
Wheel alignment involves making sure the angles of the wheels are adjusted .
Both balancing and alignment should be done regularly .
Alignment includes all the vehicles components that make the car go straight .
If one of the components requires repair ,  the vehicle is unsafe to drive .
These measurements are called caster ,  camber ,  and toe .
Africans always win in car rallies .
Identities can be made and remade depending on circumstance and opportunity .
The point here is that ones origin is not permanently established .
Academic institutions are expected to adhere to the new rule .
The maid demanded two hundred million shillings ransom .
The parents had to pay two million shillings ransom to get their child .
Child kidnapping has become common in Uganda .
The district funds have been secured .
Problems began when it came to swearing in a government of national unity .
All positions of the cabinet were readvertised .
There is a lot that needs to be done to ensure that we get good roads .
It was clear that many factors altered the political balance .
The background shows it was a product of the failure of such politics .
Very few human beings would seek to kill people they hate .
An explanation that seems powerful is FEAR .
So many Hutu participated in the genocide to save their own lives .
The divorce was mutual ,  and both parties had issued a joint statement .
She had at least profited one hundred million dollars in assets .
They got rid of each other ,  the issue is custody of their children .
If a dog jumps in your lap ,  it is because he is fond of you .
If a cat jumps on your lap ,  it is because your lap is warmer .
The obedient must be slaves .
If you love someone ,  love them with all your soul .
When you go to work ,  work to your best capability .
When you hate someone ,  hate them until it hurts .
There were two distinct versions of soccer .
The earliest known version of football was called Zumba .
There are many things that we need to know before we get married .
This was used more as entertainment for people to watch .
Suspects appearing in court must undergo medical tests to assess their mental state .
Six hundred million shillings will be allocated to payments .
Three million shillings will be allocated for those who were injured .
Some patients reached the point of frustration that they left .
When they complained ,  they were told to ask the government to recruit more staff .
Some colleagues received salary cuts .
There is evidence that registers have been tampered with .
What behavior would be expected of such troops ?
Only parts of the law that promote cheating are implemented .
These requests are meant to promote free and fair elections
Most of these instances were provocation with patience
Patience is what people need .
Organizing free and fair elections can ensure peace and stability .
How history can repeat itself .
There should be a way to contain the violence .
I have been to this office many times last week .
Dependents are in school ,  two being at the University .
Perhaps one explanation for the delays is mismanagement .
Egesa has exposed the people behind the fraud .
The current lockdown situation has been very difficult .
We are not allowed to move from one district to another .
Boda Boda riders are not allowed to carry any passengers .
The health workers have to walk to hospitals during this period .
It is not easy for pregnant women to walk to hospitals .
Even in lockdown ,  we need to still take our children for immunization .
The vaccines for immunization will be available next week .
The vaccines will be given to only elderly people .
The health workers and teachers will get the vaccines first .
It is good to be at the health center early in the morning to get the vaccine .
The vaccine will not be given to children .
The two raids are not isolated incidents .
The two governments have repeatedly used force to take back refugees .
The youth are allowed to get vaccines .
Hospitals have run out of medicines .
When they spoke it was slow and confusing .
He needs to find someone to blame .
The ministry should provide sufficient drugs for the health centers .
The health centers should report in time when the medicine has run out .
The government drivers have been told to pack the cars at the ministry .
This bill has been fought for years
The cars have to be serviced before they go out to the field .
People were discussing the World Cup final .
Four people were injured in the accident .
The truck was delayed because of a road accident .
As he was making dinner his can opener stopped working .
The truck with the matooke has just arrived .
We have to wait for the truck to arrive with the firewood .
People react to events in different ways .
There is always a need to ensure we have packed enough food .
Food is very expensive these days .
The children have to wake up very early .
They walk for long distances to go to school .
After the meeting ,  they were advised to write down their views .
The proposal reviews have been released .
We need to address all the mayor's comments .
There should always be support for players .
Support should be given to the torture victims .
Most reporters are vulnerable recruits who can be taken into terrorist activities .
They claim they are still resourceful despite mishandling their issues .
This sum of money had been stolen from the national cash box .
Some children cant afford their school fees .
According to police ,  cases of child kidnap are on the rise .
Girls should avoid moving out of home at night .
Girls in Kamuli district are very vulnerable .
There is always a need to ensure that girls are protected .
Fathers should always be present in their daughters' lives .
Children should be supported as they go through school .
It is a joy to see girls graduating .
That girl has graduated with very good scores .
Phones should not be given to children .
There is a hindrance with the payments .
Keeping deadlines is always a very good habit .
There should be a way to check if the deadlines have been met .
There should not be any delays in delivering the work .
Passengers were stuck on the airline due to the delay .
The airline was delayed in Tanzania .
Ugandans should not make jokes about the airline .
These are the recipients of COVID-19 money .
Are the attacks religious-based or not ?
The pictures of those people who received the Covid-19 fund need to be released .
We should patiently wait for the relief food .
The government has promised to send us relief food .
The government hospitals do not need donor money to work .
Government workers always report late to work .
Pharmacies should always stock up on medicines .
The medicines have been destroyed by fire .
The main building in Makerere University was destroyed by fire .
This is how cakes are made .
They began fighting and were unable to get anything done .
The organized group captured power yesterday .
The judge told me to go home .
After a lot of delays ,  he agreed that they look into the issue .
People should be aware that Covid nineteen is very dangerous .
Those on district council positions would pay two hundred thousand shillings .
Street parking generates a lot of revenue for the town .
There were attempts of reconciliation between the two families .
He was not aware the party was holding primaries to choose flag bearers .
Political parties should have clear governance structures .
The rest of the candidates were told to register the next day .
We should build a culture of changing leaders .
Street vendors should be relocated to a market .
Cleanliness in a market is very important .
Nobody should threaten you with a panga .
We have the ability to govern this country .
Nobody has a right to annoy people .
We will imprison him if he does not change his behavior .
Our mission is to build church-founded schools .
Gayaza high school is the oldest girls school in Uganda
Election results will be announced tomorrow .
The election results were released very late .
Election results should always be transparent .
Police should always try to be tolerant of the citizens .
Police have been the greatest tormentor of the opposition .
The police have hit the opposition and their supporters .
Police should not be involved in elections .
Arua city hosts many non-government projects .
There is a lot of development in Arua city .
The opposition will take the call for free and fair elections to all corners of the country .
The call has gained more supporters with other pressure groups .
Violence is always discouraged during elections .
He says the payment is in the final stages .
Payment for KCCA workers should be enforced .
Government policies should always be introduced at the district level .
Bombings killed over seventy-six people yesterday .
Churches and supermarkets will have to follow the new law .
Public transport is expected to adhere to the new policy .
He now faces charges of beating the police .
One person was injured in the shooting .
He was punished for failing to put their summons in writing .
The total budget expenditure will be at least ten percent lower than intended .
This was due to weak progress in many sectors due to corruption .
Although there was progress in the health and education performance was weak .
There will always be delays in obtaining the test results .
It is important to discipline students at home .
There were disappointing results in the transport sector .
He has resisted police criminal summons several times .
Children love to have cakes on their birthdays .
There must be a good reason for him to appear at the police .
Schools have been closed for over a year now .
Hospitals are overwhelmed by the number of admitted patients .
All the information is available at the office of the mayor .
People should share knowledge in their language groups .
In the end ,  what matters is to complete the project successfully .
There are a lot of places to visit in Uganda .
Tourists always come to visit Uganda .
I have traveled across the country .
Journalists should be allowed to speak their minds .
My view is that the answer should always be open .
The general elections were peaceful .
People were walking ten kilometers to rally sites .
Groups of people would be hosted on a large ground .
The pathways were created to allow movement through the crowd .
There are huge drinking water tanks on all corners .
Youth volunteers look through the crowd to spot the elderly .
Even excited people should not break police barriers .
The animals in the game park will be relocated .
The police has been deployed at every turn .
But it is also because people seem to respect rules .
He mobilized people to kill their neighbors along ethnic lines .
The genocide was successful because of effective mobilization by the state .
It was a powerful insight but one which also goes the other way .
He had heard all this over the radio and looked for leaders to register him .
They will not attend to your problems if you go to them .
This was through the provision of public services like healthcare and education .
He said the authorities did not help during the raid .
Discriminating against opposition supporters is not good .
The farmers are complaining about pests affecting their crops .
The little boys have played a lot today .
Leaders work together in a government of national unity .
People are not beneficiaries of government programs .
Political parties have incentives they give to voters .
We have forums where these issues are raised .
The other parties have presented this matter to the forum .
The organization has been assessed by the auditors .
I asked the President what he thought of the candidate .
He said his party is strong and can win the election .
There are many kinds of COVID nineteen treatment options .
Providing a quality health system should be a priority for the government .
It is not good to go outside interact with the women .
Public services should be accessed by everyone
It is hard to build honest opposition politics .
He did the training with a lot of wisdom .
The village party was successful .
He has a lot of people to pay today .
Kagame thanked locals for their good work .
He requested the audience to continue on the right path .
His speeches were very brilliant .
The school fees has been returned back to the parents .
The government paid money to compensate the victims .
Unemployment is very high in Uganda .
The incumbent gave inspirational messages .
I have great plans for my life .
They want him to be released from prison today .
All driving permits will be inspected .
Only qualified drivers will be allowed on the road .
Accidents have led to the death of many people .
Both of the candidates are suitable for the post .
Will he make the right choice ?
A king in Buganda is special .
The king usually has several names .
Some of the king's names were mentioned .
There will be a meeting at the statehouse .
The issues concerning the taxes will be solved .
The meeting is to be held in the afternoon .
Some of the ladies supported the law .
Why were the Asians sent away ?
They have a history of poor leadership .
People are still not happy with the new taxes .
The fuel taxes are too high .
He gave a speech during the celebration .
They want to get him out of prison .
His arrest was unfair .
The party needs more supporters .
There were fights among party members .
The meeting was for female leaders in the party .
He may lose a lot of property .
His land was stolen by the army .
The land title was forged .
The residents attacked people who had come to chase them from the land .
They did not want people on the land .
She has spent a month without coming back home .
The resident may have been kidnapped .
His wife has not seen him for seven days now .
The two countries will work together .
There is strong competition in the elections .
The political parties are not on good terms .
The water in the river has reduced .
The government plans to set up a dam .
There has been a reduction in the employees' salary in that company .
The company must follow the new tax laws .
There was a riot on Jinja road .
There is unfair treatment of workers based on their gender .
Both teams have promised to do their best .
The team is well prepared for the games .
Newly elected officials should start working right away .
The team will participate in the World Cup games .
It will be the first time the team participates in the event .
Indians have very many businesses in Uganda .
The minister will arrive in July .
The minister is a potential investor .
There is an increase in poverty in the region .
The youth are encouraged to start new businesses .
The ruling party won most of the parliamentary seats .
What could have caused their loss ?
The incident will forever be remembered .
The water in the area is dirty .
Most people did not turn up for voting in fear of chaos .
He was released on bail .
It is expected to rain tomorrow .
The company now has a new branch .
They asked people to support their business .
The organization intends to refund the money .
There will be no refunds for the illegal transactions .
The new leaders are ready to serve .
The final decision regarding age and term limits will be made this month .
The residents are being forced out of their homes .
It is not the first time people have been evicted .
The church will not elect a new leader .
He will supervise the activities .
The incidents will not be investigated .
He was free to choose whether to come to court or not .
The funds have been released .
Taxes are used to provide services to people
The organizations are working together to protect the area .
She is in a meeting .
The government is going to buy cars for the members of parliament .
It is expensive to buy cars for all the members of parliament .
The members of another party are not happy with the decision .
The letter will be read in parliament .
People who used the service before the tax was reduced will be paid .
Parliament will review the law .
The law will be revised .
The final decision is yet to be made .
All members of parliament are going to receive cars .
Some members are not happy with the decision .
The police shot at the rioters .
The increase in the tax rates made the people riot .
The act of cutting down trees should be illegal .
He will be punished for his crimes .
Those who cut down trees will be punished .
The World Bank has investments in the county .
The country's rate of economic growth is low .
He is a criminal .
They refused to attend the elections .
He was introduced by the chairman .
Laws have been put in place to ensure fair elections .
The police will maintain law and order during the elections .
The land should be given to the rightful owners .
The land was given to the wrong person .
The meeting could not be held .
The team lost their first game .
The player says he will never forget his first game .
They will start playing tomorrow .
The trip to Botswana was tiresome for the team .
The team's win was celebrated .
The cricket team has no time to rest .
Businessmen do not understand how taxes work .
The traders hate being taxed .
African countries are learning how to use technology .
The summit will be attended by people coming from different countries .
The news is being reported live from Rwanda .
They air the news at night .
Trade greatly depends on the port .
The port is no longer useful .
The country is losing a lot of revenue because of the port .
The floods destroyed people's homes .
Heavy rains made the river overflow .
The residents are now homeless .
The flood destroyed the crops .
The government should provide supplies to assist them .
Some children do not like being at home .
Some parents mistreat their children .
The reporter has more information .
More people are moving to towns .
We need to take care of the environment .
The district will be popular again .
The family wants its land back .
An official illegally took over the land .
They were advised to give up on the land .
This incident is quite common .
Most government employees need training .
It is important for the midwives to have annual training to promote knowledge dissemination .
The event marks the start of the activities .
The sports event was led by a girl .
Most of the rubbish is dumped in the area .
There is no one to remove the rubbish .
This is the information provided .
Some areas have a weak internet connection .
All the information is available on the internet .
Companies are working together to achieve this goal .
Urban areas have many talented people .
It is good to grow your talent .
The government should support individuals that are good at sports .
Stationery is now being taxed .
Taking children back to school is now very expensive .
Stationery dealers do not want to pay the tax .
Crushing rocks is dangerous to people's health .
One of the king's names means he is perfect in all ways .
A drum is an important symbol for the Kingdom .
She is researching the king's names .
His friends want to get him out of jail .
The journalist could not pay his debt in court .
The brigadier died eleven years ago .
The cause of the death was unknown .
The president was not happy with the doctors .
The doctors are demanding their payment .
They have decided to stay away from work .
Investors are looking for land .
Investors shouldn't depend on politicians to get for the land .
The factory is on a large piece of land .
A doctor complained when a foreigner was given a job in their department .
Foreign doctors will provide great support in hospitals .
The vaccines were fake .
A spy was sent to collect information .
The company made the vaccine .
The reporter will give us more information .
The forty-eight-hour rule is no longer being followed .
The new official promised to work hard .
Some taxes will be increased .
The citizens do not want to pay more taxes .
Why did he leave the organization ?
The reporter had a conversation with him .
The government took over the land illegally .
The area is now a forest reserve .
They were telling the truth .
She showed more interest in her education .
There are many qualified individuals but few jobs .
Are the Resident District Commissioners doing their work ?
The officials do take their work seriously .
Doctors are not happy that foreigners are getting employed in their sector .
The local doctors should be considered for the jobs too .
The organization has one week to correct the issues in the budget .
The kingdom doesn't want the two tenure systems to be joined .
Everyone wants to be in charge .
There was a fight between taxi operators and minibus drivers .
The taxi drivers refused to raise their transport prices .
The army needs more supplies .
Large organizations were asked for assistance .
The army disapproved the rumors .
The university students are planning to strike because of a tuition increase .
The university tuition fees have increased by fifteen percent .
The judges have a lot of unfinished work .
The patients walk long distances to get treatment .
The community does not have enough drugs .
The organization needs more money .
There is a need to settle the disagreement privately .
The examinations body has released the results .
The boys did not perform well .
Some students' results have been withheld .
The author is a journalist with New Vision .
Wait for the full report during news time .
The university is determined to maintain its position .
The school has strengthened its team .
They plan to put up a big structure .
The team is to be supported by the vice president .
The manager has intimidated the opposing team .
They have to win the game to qualify for the next round .
The three countries will benefit from the industry .
The focus is on improving trade in the area .
The government has been called upon to revise the taxes .
He said that business is affected if the taxes are a lot .
The construction of the market has finally started .
The contractor has been identified .
The court has asked for the evidence .
The defense lawyers want the case to be dismissed .
The rebel has been killed .
The rebels attacked the community .
The army has confirmed the event .
My neighbor is a soldier .
The death reports have been released .
The police chief has distinguished the matter .
The political party is not doing well financially .
The issue caused a dispute between the two leaders .
The money will not be used to pay salaries .
The aim is to fund the ongoing activities .
The matter was unclear even after he had given his explanation .
The information annoyed the legislators .
More businesses are expected to start .
The time spent on getting services will reduce .
His life has changed .
He is a farmer .
The officer was arrested .
They do not have electricity .
The residents want the electricity to be extended to them .
The dams are constructed on the community rivers .
Is the police chief still in control of the police ?
Security agents are continuously breaking the law .
The women's group is seeking justice for those who were killed .
They did not register everyone .
The lawyer wants the government to be condemned for its actions .
The law is silent on the matter .
The compensation for the war victims has taken long to be paid .
They assume that their money has been misused .
The detail will be revealed at the evening news hour .
She has changed over time .
She came fifth during the race .
A student from the institution won the race .
They are worried about the delays at the border .
The legislators have looked into the issue .
The residents have unregistered guns .
Eight people have been killed within one month .
He was found dead in his room .
The matter is still being studied .
The country has been praised by an international organization .
There is a call to involve more women in farming .
She will provide the details .
They want the boss to resign .
They do not want something very hard .
The institution should carry out its duties .
Many people cannot maintain the practice .
Fortunately ,  he has been saving for a long time .
His savings helped him during his retirement .
The former prime minister is campaigning .
They have been urged to learn from others .
He has asked them to use all platforms .
He will break down the news further .
The school is worrying the residents .
The buildings have cracks .
The health status in the area is not good .
The story will be shown during the news hour .
It will be shown on television .
The legislators are not happy with the conduct of the companies .
The office should protect the people against crime .
There is a need to have the law examined .
The organization wants to be involved in the management of the funds .
The residents were shocked by the discovery of the body .
The deceased was operating a saloon .
The schools are still waiting for the decision of the government .
A request for a holiday has been given to the leader .
The religious leader is in the country for four days .
The run is aimed at raising funds .
She will also be at the event .
The culture of saving money is developed over time .
Some people retire into poverty .
Politicians do not save money for the future .
They are regretting their actions .
The members have understood the value of having some savings .
The aim was to educate as many children as possible .
His intention is very unclear .
The country loses a lot of money in disputes .
The religious leader was assassinated .
The journalist wants to understand the whole story .
The findings of the team have been given to the president .
The country prides itself on the life of the deceased religious leader .
Memorial Day is approaching soon .
His life is inspirational .
The day of his memorial is a public holiday .
The officers will be punished .
Some officers have already been arrested .
The move has been welcomed by different people .
This should be a learning experience .
The government has been asked to create a conducive environment for farmers .
The land title acquired by the minister has been canceled .
The police are looking into the conduct of some of its officers .
They have contributed to the well-being of the community .
The move was aimed at rewarding the company's customers .
Cancer should be reported at the earliest stage of discovery .
The doctor stated that the disease is on the rise amongst children .
The leader has been asked to explain how the money was used .
The country lost a lot of money due to lack of supervision over the activity .
The minister said that the letter was not written by him .
He was asked to sign .
The coffee farmers have been urged to form groups .
Many farmers have left the practice .
Child marriages are on the rise in the country .
The parents are behind the practice .
She is a grandmother at a young age .
The lending rate has been reduced .
This is aimed at enabling business continuity .
Non-government schools continue to perform better than government schools .
The performance of traditional schools is poor .
Parents choose schools in the city over schools in the village .
The performance of girls in that school has improved .
The program was introduced to level the education field .
The target has not yet been met .
Many schools are willing to accept students with low grades .
The exercise aims to select students who will be admitted .
The football team will be visiting its competitors .
The revelation was made this morning in the capital city .
Many people lack proper information on condoms .
The announcement is in line with the celebrations .
Four people are competing for the position .
The major battle is between two contestants .
The land was given to investors without proper authorization .
The statement was made by the chairperson .
Her contacts lost money to fraudsters .
The leader of the police force had also been targeted .
He wants to change the organization .
The board needs to be looked into .
They did not respond to the allegations .
He contested the terms of his release on bail .
There was a lot of confusion at the court .
There is new information coming in at nine o'clock .
The army asked the teachers and pupils to leave the school .
Some parents were beaten .
The army claims that it owns the land .
The news will be live .
The behavior of the police is being questioned .
The people do not know what should be done .
A special guest will be teaching the people about their rights .
The cause of violence among the youth is not yet known .
Some people shared their views on the matter .
The group is advocating for a better system of taxation .
The government has been given ideas on how to collect taxes .
The police has been instructed to arrest the self-made King .
He is not recognized by the government .
The region has not been rewarded properly .
The security agents were told by the friend .
The matter followed a domestic violence complaint .
He was found at his home .
The practice has been condemned .
The police has defended their conduct .
It was never expected of a religious leader .
The president was asked not to contest again .
The second round of the competition is back .
A good number of games will be played .
They are driven by the desire to be successful .
Many start-up companies die early .
Successful businesses are not easy to maintain .
How can success be sustained ?
He has signed a contract with another football team .
The move does not resolve the problem .
The act is seen as a waste of time and resources .
The games will start next week .
Four teams will be playing against each other .
How does everyone lookout for the other ?
There is currently no law .
Law enforcement agents apply what they think is right .
How is the community affected by the actions of the police ?
The security agents wanted to arrest the suspects again .
The accusations are false .
The leading council has made changes to its leadership structure .
The focus is on bringing the services closer to the people .
The program has not yet been implemented .
The focus was on the rural population .
The poor storage of cassava affects its quality .
The soil in our village is very fertile .
The farmers have got high yields this season .
The leader is not happy with the way some companies operate .
The investigation report was very useful to the officer .
Everything has been included in the report .
She was severely burnt by the acid .
The court of law has a right to grant bail with or without a doubt .
What are the causes of unending wars in Africa ?
Some African countries withdrew from the African Union .
The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees offers financial assistance to refugees .
The government is investigating allegations of corruption by officials in the refugee department .
The prison sentence for firearms possession is ten years .
Two people were killed during the night security operation in our town .
The newspaper has published job vacancies in the Ministry of Health .
This financial report has many loopholes .
She is going to tell you everything about that issue .
It is a very good plan for the future of our country .
Some kingdom officials are not comfortable with the government plan .
This shop mainly deals in cosmetic products .
The company has branches in several towns in the country .
The women in our village apply beauty products .
My son is pursuing a course in building and construction .
There is tight competition between the local and foreign oil companies in Uganda .
The parliamentary committee has delayed passing the bill .
Today's English news anchor was very fluent and clear .
This school is under the Kampala Capital City Authority .
The old buildings in all city authority schools are under renovation .
Several schools will participate in the upcoming marathon .
The rate of unemployment amongst the youths in the country is very high .
There is too much exploitation of foreign workers in some countries .
Modern slavery is very rampant in Asian countries .
We are breaking off for our Easter holidays this Thursday .
Christians are called upon to show a good example in their communities .
Some people are addicted to cigarette smoking in our community .
The government banned the smoking of cigarettes in public places .
Health workers have warned people against the dangers of cigarette smoking .
Wars lead to the loss of people's lives and property .
Some of them were compensated a few years ago .
I have added more information to this month's report .
Our case has been forwarded to the High Court .
The journalist has full details of the story .
Communities with large numbers of refugees experience a high rate of disease spread .
Many refugees lack access to employment ,  education ,  and medical care .
The deceased has left behind many widows and helpless children .
The attackers came in a big group .
Many residents were left homeless .
He got the full details of the story from one of the eyewitnesses .
The heads of state reached an agreement .
The head of state has gone for a foreign visit .
He submitted this report yesterday .
I heard about the arrests over the news .
Our national boxing team performed well in last year's international games .
All civil servants are supposed to be well qualified in their fields of work .
This will improve the quality of work in government ministries .
Several companies have sponsored different football clubs in the Uganda national league .
It is one of the best football teams in the national league .
All African countries sent delegates to the trade conference .
Some of the senior economists in the country supported the idea .
He was reporting live from the conference room .
The media company has supported the music talent for many years .
Some songs played on this show bring back good memories .
Many experienced musicians are expected to perform in that concert .
People are eagerly waiting for that moment to come .
He is the chief organizer of the upcoming music event .
This company has many departments .
The agreement was announced at a press briefing held at the headquarters .
The company has been permitted to operate freely .
They are not the rightful owners of the land .
Our team has gone to find out the truth about the matter .
The expansion plan of Kampala district has excited its residents .
People in Kampala voted for their new leaders yesterday .
His report was not clear at all .
That detention center is located in Jinja district .
The officer in charge told us the truth about the detention center .
There are several cases of judicial corruption witnessed in the country .
The newly appointed chief judge has dealt with many criminal cases .
What is the main role of a judge ?
The banking sector contributes a lot to the development of an economy .
Banks should look at the credit history of a person before issuing a loan .
The journalist reported about the challenges financial institutions are facing .
Chronic back pain is very common among elderly people .
We have very few orthopedic surgeons in the country .
Some officials deserve to be punished for their bad conduct .
They were caught red-handed by one of the camp residents .
Buganda land board offices are located at Bulange-Mengo .
Some opposition leaders criticize the ruling party programs .
The governor has warned financial institutions against charging high-interest rates on their customers .
I missed today's lunchtime news .
The federation has greatly improved the standard of sports in the country .
Our national team riders still need more skills to perform better in the championship .
The federation expects an increase in the number of riders next year .
Many international riders are set to compete in this race .
Most of the government hospital buildings in the country need to be renovated .
The government used the loan to construct the school in our town council .
The long period of war greatly damaged the northern part of the country .
The youth have acquired skills to enable them to create jobs .
The training has improved the lives of many young people in our community .
Prices of cement keep on changing from time to time .
How much is a sack of cement ?
Poor nutrition during pregnancy hinders the development of the unborn child .
It is very important for expectant mothers to go for antenatal care .
There is an increase in the number of maternal deaths .
She was thrown out of the house at midnight .
There was a doctor who claimed ownership of that land .
The priest urged people to promote peace and harmony in their communities .
This was announced by the minister .
He is the one behind the whole plan .
He is not fluent in English .
The examination was very tiresome .
He accused him of grabbing land .
Some senior politicians advised the leader about the ongoing land issue .
We have got all the details in a report .
The leaders have lost trust in one another .
The president made a phone call to the bishop yesterday .
The leaders are trying to settle the disagreement amongst themselves .
The soldier died while saving his injured colleague .
The official said that only four soldiers were killed in the attack .
Many of our soldiers sustained serious injuries during the attack .
I have to watch the nine o'clock news from home .
Most of the national team players come from our home village .
The sports council has identified more young stars to join the national team .
The footballer had an interview with a known sports journalist .
In our country ,  golf is mostly played by rich people .
The winners were rewarded with trophies and money .
Mbale town is very congested .
The streets in the city center are crowded with street vendors .
How do I start an oil and gas business in our country ?
There is competition amongst the different oil companies .
There are four legal mining companies in Northern Uganda .
Livestock farmers in Northern Uganda rear local breeds .
He told us everything about you .
This town is very disorganized .
The residents live in continuous fear of criminals .
Kampala is one of the highly populated cities in Africa .
Many people in the city are homeless .
Currently ,  some businesses in the city are closed because of the pandemic .
She will always be remembered for her great contribution to the country .
He died in the year two thousand thirteen .
Their death was very terrifying .
It's quite rare for someone to be struck by lightning .
It has been raining every day .
I have to watch today's nine o'clock news from home .
The chairman apologized to the committee for his recent bad conduct .
Politicians should be on good terms with their counterparts .
The president is the chief commander of the national army .
The army protects people's lives and property .
Some people cut trees for charcoal burning .
Unclear land boundaries cause a lot of conflicts in the country .
This report was released last year in December .
Sincerely ,  the city needs to be expanded because it is over congested .
On many occasions ,  soldiers have been deployed in different foreign countries .
Many countries have experienced terrorist attacks in Africa .
I will make the report at the end of this week .
The religious leader was not injured during the attack .
Christians are wondering why their leader was attacked .
The culprit was arrested instantly .
Everything happened in the presence of journalists .
This is one of the biggest markets in the capital city .
Christians celebrate the resurrection of Jesus Christ on Easter Sunday .
The roman catholic priests are not allowed to marry .
The church leader preached a gospel of reconciliation and forgiveness last Sunday .
Some schools have only boys .
Some African countries have lost many people to coronavirus .
Peace talks help in solving political conflicts in the country .
The government has put much emphasis on the security of all citizens .
The constitution guides us well in all that we plan to do .
We are still waiting for the investigation report from the police .
They have hired a private investigator to find out the truth behind the robbery .
Private investigators are very expensive .
Leaders should show a good example to their subjects .
The church leader has called upon Ugandans to live peacefully with others .
The kidnappers always target rich people's children .
Many people deliberately refuse to pay taxes .
Motorcycles are very convenient for business people .
The village council treasurer attacked the chairman for being tribalistic .
The judge did not appear for today's court session .
The judge instructed us to come with our witnesses in the next court session .
Political parties need enough funds to facilitate the smooth flow of their plans .
Most of the sports journalists in Uganda are males .
The journalist has given us all the information concerning our national team .
He is one of the best athletes in the country .
Football is one of the most exciting sport to watch .
The president is very concerned about the security in the country .
My cousin is one of the best news anchors in the country .
Some universities did not participate in last year's sports tournament .
We won twenty gold medals in last year's sports competitions .
This year's football league kicks off next week .
The sports committee has included new games in the upcoming championship .
Cassava flour is good for porridge .
The ministry of agriculture gave out quality seeds to rural farmers last month .
The people are now happy about having a representative .
He spoke to a journalist about his journey as the head of the unit .
The former custodian declined to take over the national team .
He said that during an interview on television .
They received items to help them survive .
The Ministry of health forewarned against violation of the standard operating procedures .
They elected a new Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson .
They refused the opportunity .
He left the meeting in total anger .
They criticized the abrupt lockdown that kept them at home .
They are needy and they should be helped .
They were warned against using personal data to determine vulnerability .
The people in the villages keep coming to the city in search of jobs .
This is the fourth day of lockdown .
The culprits claim to be in need .
The law enforcers paid a deaf ear to their requests .
The leaders decided to join forces to fight the deadly virus .
The public has been cautioned against taking the directives lightly .
Some people have chosen to ignore the set restrictions .
They no longer have oxygen in the hospital .
They do not have enough resources .
The qualifications for the senior citizens' grant are to remain the same .
The focus is now on their representatives .
Those taking advantage of the sick have been revealed .
They should no longer be allowed to operate .
The oil tunnels are deep .
This discovery occurred while digging a pit latrine .
The government distributed food during the first lockdown .
The government intends to provide cash relief in the second lockdown .
Many teenagers were impregnated during the lockdown .
There is an increase in the spread of the virus .
Those vaccinated have not been spared .
Animations have been used to communicate ideas .
Despite its benefits ,  the tracking system is a risky venture .
She was late for the interview .
The high number of people passing on could lead to mental disorders among many .
So far ,  many people have died of that disease .
They narrated their nightmare tearfully .
They called for changes in the prisons .
Those responsible said that they did nothing wrong .
There has been a rise in the number of cases .
All sorts of measures are being used to save lives .
It is not true that everyone has been vaccinated .
The increased demand for oxygen has forced the hospital to seek alternative sources .
They should cut down on their expenses .
They did not agree with budgetary allocations .
Parents accused school authorities of deliberately hiding infections among children .
Details of the results have been revealed .
He will make sure that everyone follows the rules .
The race has revealed the cracks in the opposition .
People should not be worried .
She was accused of disobeying the committee .
It is good to apologize when in wrong .
The election exercise is set to begin .
What more do they have to offer ?
Parliament resumes next month .
They blocked him from accessing the offices .
They did not like the food .
There will be prayers .
There is a lot of fake news .
There are so many police officers .
The build-up to the inauguration ceremony is taking shape .
The army is preparing for war .
It is good ,  to be honest ,  every day .
There is a need for improvement .
They expect to get the proper care .
The services are not good enough .
The money in her bank account has been reduced .
Several factors led to a fall in the budget .
They deserved a break from all the school work .
The list of beneficiaries has grown .
They should remain at home during the lockdown .
They should wait a bit before leaving home .
Many young people are being infected .
They are many sick people in the hospital .
Many people are against police brutality .
The year has been full of joy .
There is a lot of freedom in Arua .
Everything that took place during the polls has been revealed .
The situation has left the residents confused .
Many people have been killed as well .
Several people have lost their lives .
It is among the most important offices in the country .
They refused to make the requested changes in the proposal .
They did not accept the new changes .
They will take an oath of office .
The ruling party is still dominant .
There is a new face of opposition .
I do not know what lies ahead for primary school children .
The district registered new cases of the deadly virus .
A recovery plan is underway .
Some courses were removed .
They sought assistance elsewhere .
The fisherman was rescued by the police .
The coronavirus nineteen funds were misused .
Whoever is found guilty will be punished .
Some students cheat in examinations .
Most of the students didn't receive their results .
She will give us all the details .
His lawyers were not allowed to see him .
The organization carries out special operations .
He is very hard working .
He is working hard to join the team .
Other players joined the team .
They all have different responsibilities on the team .
Registering a business is a very long process .
It is now simple and easy to register a business .
People have been encouraged to start-up businesses .
He was accused of illegally selling the land .
Most people are not following the rules .
They did not accept the test results .
The pending court cases are too many .
There wasn't enough evidence to prove that he was guilty .
Only one of the expected witnesses showed up .
He was accused of other crimes .
Something should be done to stop schools from cheating in examinations .
People have been advised to start saving money for their future .
People need to prepare for their retirement .
They are planning a strike .
The leader informed the public .
Introducing a law about mental health is not a good idea .
The suspect has been sent to prison .
He admitted his crimes .
He was accused of other illegal actions .
Many students were happy with their results .
The overall performance in the final exams was not good across the country .
He will not be punished for misusing funds .
Another office will handle the issue .
Some districts had schools with very poor results .
Most of the students who sat for the examinations were from public schools .
Many students failed the English exam .
Private schools had very good results .
He promised to ensure the safety of the citizens .
People should think of ways of making money .
People can now use their phones to pay taxes .
The disabled can succeed in life .
She made a decision that surprised many people .
She is earning money from motorcycles .
They now fight to protect people .
They no longer have to fight .
Some schools may not open for the new term .
The prices of fuel may keep increasing .
The prices had been low for a while .
The forces have finished preparing for the event .
Some departments are suspected to have worked with the culprits .
All the commanders will be questioned .
Those who were hurt by the suspects will be investigated .
This is what is happening now .
Fuel is now expensive for the riders .
Living without a job is scary to some people .
Only those with savings can happily leave their jobs .
Many people have benefited from their savings .
They want to provide easy access to health services .
Some people discover that they have health issues when it is too late .
There are many patients battling cancer in the hospitals .
What is going to happen to his partner ?
They were blamed for not visiting him while he was in the hospital .
They will keep making music .
The drivers who were found breaking the rules were arrested .
The roads are under heavy supervision .
The area is out of bounds .
The action will yield negative results .
The district has a new water facility .
They did a lot of work around the area .
They took part in the hospital's activities .
The reporter has the records .
Few people are living in the country .
Many people ran away from the country .
The country is home to many displaced people .
The elections have been postponed . "
The information was received late .
The institutions can't open without the authorization of the ministry .
Students had to first confirm if their schools had been allowed to operate .
Some schools may open illegally .
The schools were closed for various reasons .
There may be a lot of changes within the company .
Some of the late musician's things are missing .
They promised not to disappoint their fans .
New team members are being trained .
Some teams are not ready for the upcoming games .
The quality of education provided to children should be improved .
This project will be funded by foreign organizations .
They plan to train people in several parts of the country .
He wrote the news story .
He had many supporters .
Our reporter will tell us more .
He was moved to another prison .
His wife wanted to see him before he left .
He was one of a kind .
The students are not happy with the university rules .
That behavior is unacceptable in society .
Students fail to concentrate on their studies because of strikes .
The land no longer belongs to the royal family .
She is not on good terms with her family .
Further investigation into the case will be done .
Some students have been taken to jail .
It is unfair to increase the tuition .
More news updates will be given later .
Traders are not following the rules .
There are several kidnaps happening in the district now .
We have enough information on the topic .
A plan to enable telecom companies to use the same equipment is being developed .
There will be a change in the payment structure for civil servants .
The experts' salaries are to be increased .
This decision is unfair and will yield negative results .
The wages for each civil servant are to be increased .
Many people are getting sick .
Those that may be infected are being given treatment .
The cause of the problem is not yet known .
The youth have been told to be careful while going abroad to work .
People tend to suffer when they go abroad to work .
The company was popular .
The firm was forced to stop its operations .
They looked for him to do an interview .
The people should protect themselves .
The rebellion led to the death of many innocent people .
The supporters were not happy with the court session .
The venue for the meeting was far away .
The final result will depend on several factors .
The court case was about a land wrangle .
The police orders were not followed .
There have been several arrests this month .
Security organizations are very cruel to the suspects .
The number of victims of nodding disease is increasing .
More people have been infected with the virus
The medicine has side effects .
He presented the information .
The lawyers are not performing their duties .
It takes a long time for the court cases to be resolved .
He has the entire story of what happened .
The committee was not supposed to be involved .
She will send a letter to her rival .
They violated the company rules .
A couple faked its kidnap .
They have been arrested .
They sent money to the culprits .
The team has arrived .
They traveled for the games .
She was waiting for them at the airport .
He was in another relationship .
He is not allowed to work anymore .
She must meet the committee .
She had missed the previous meeting .
Part of the land belongs to the government .
The facility will stop all its operations .
People can now replace their lost sim cards .
The companies had stopped issuing sim cards .
They cant afford to pay for electricity .
A lot of money is needed to clear the debt .
Many foreign doctors will be employed .
The plan had already been confirmed .
Why are they doing nothing about the rearrests ?
They do not have a representative in the country .
He can take away her job .
They may end up working without pay .
They work under strict laws .
They are not on good terms with the government .
They failed to work together .
She has more issues to solve .
She belongs to another family .
They are doubting their connection to her .
They are not supposed to give away the tools .
He is making changes in the organization .
They have been given different jobs .
The changes were made based on their skills .
She explained the situation .
His competitor is allowed to leave the group .
He is not happy with the former leader's actions .
He had a conversation with their boss .
They should encourage farmers to start selling their crops .
They are using public resources to do their work .
He gave a speech during the meeting .
The incident is explained further .
The company has invited the public to buy shares .
The story will be continued tomorrow .
The arrests keep happening every night .
People should stay safe .
He gave a speech on his birthday .
All the data is in the report is accurate
The person who stole the land has been arrested .
He had refused to cooperate .
People can easily buy and sell goods at the border .
They signed the agreement .
Immunization helps to protect children from diseases .
They are preparing for the event .
The process of getting an identification card has been simplified .
My retail shop failed because I was short of capital .
Accounting plays an important role in running a business .
We will have a netball game this weekend .
Their partnership has formed the coronation cup .
They are now business partners .
The teams will be competing against each other .
Farmers in the rural areas were supplied with poor-quality seeds .
The company facilitated ten people ,  but only eight attended the workshop .
This year's statistics are disappointing .
He became the king at a young age .
The coronation ceremony will take place tomorrow .
The president signed off the bill and it became a law .
There was a disagreement among the legislators .
They agreed to remove trade barriers across the region .
Uganda has increased its investment levels .
There is going to be a sports event .
The girls are good at sports .
The players will be trained to work together as a team .
The football team has resumed training ahead of their next game .
Tanzania has won over Uganda .
One of the teams suffered a loss .
Banana growing is no longer profitable .
Farmers make a lot of profits in coffee growing .
There has been an increase in fish farming in Eastern Uganda
Overfishing causes pressure on lakes .
Unemployment rates in Uganda have declined .
The ministry seeks to improve the employment rate among the youth .
The age limit bill has not yet been passed .
They submitted their suggestions .
Many people have lost lives in the ongoing riots .
They asked the people to calm down .
The country's economic sector has greatly improved .
Uganda has invested in many projects .
The Speaker of Parliament has withheld tax charges .
Farmers should not be charged taxes .
There has been a reduction in tax for farmers growing sugarcane .
They are looking for votes .
Campaigns for the ruling party are going on .
They were put into different groups .
Some people left the party .
Each political party has one representative .
Police should not involve themselves in chaos .
The entire exercise will be secured .
The old leaders should leave power to the younger generation .
The funds have been embezzled
The government has invested more resources into the healthcare system .
Ten clans participated in the competition .
Infants usually suffer from Colic .
Pregnant mothers are discouraged from using local herbs .
She spoke to the children's doctor at the hospital .
They received a charity fund to construct the library .
The library has been set up for public use .
They raised enough funds .
Members of the political party are fighting against themselves .
They lost the elections .
The president wants his political party to win .
The citizens want new leadership .
The former police chief is in custody .
He is contesting for a parliamentary seat .
His life is in danger .
He was killed by the police .
All public holidays are honored .
The country has invested in various sectors to eradicate poverty .
The great men are always celebrated .
The man was jailed for several years .
They planted trees in the region .
Their concerns have been worked upon .
He was tried in court today .
I would like to know whether it is important to go by the rules .
The traffic officers have got a new uniform .
They calmed themselves down .
Mobile money and social media are to be taxed .
They met at the statehouse .
They were not allowed in the meeting .
Presidents are allowed to visit any country .
Investors are exempted from arrests .
There has been an increase in the number of arrests .
Giving to charity is a sign of a big heart .
There will be a charity walk next week .
The guidelines are meant to be followed .
All police officers combined effort to end the protests .
They managed to stop the protests .
The meetings were suspended .
Various sectors of the country have improved .
It is hard to acquire the market for new business in Uganda .
Government officials in Uganda retire at sixty-five years of age .
Uganda has a big budget this year .
Improved infrastructure boosts economic development .
Various projects are under implementation .
Uganda always has a deficit budget .
Everyone is responsible for their actions .
The student who is in jail has been sentenced .
A lot of money is collected from taxes every financial year .
The authority collects revenue on behalf of the government .
Uganda's economy is made up of the informal sector .
How can I join the journalism profession ?
Railway transport is not a common means of transport in Uganda .
More funds were allocated to the security sector this financial year .
She is very talkative .
The public should avoid making false accusations against the government .
How are public concerns on the national budget handled ?
Our company's financial year also ends in June .
People with double standards are not reliable .
A relative amount of funds is allocated to the agricultural sector every financial year .
The estimated revenue collections increase each financial year .
The disobedient are often punished more .
The ruling party's political candidates' campaigns were funded .
It is normal for people to disagree on certain things .
It is very expensive to acquire a piece of land in urban areas .
He is one of the richest men in the city .
Employees hand in work-related reports to their employers every month .
Different sectors are allocated funds in the budget .
Agriculture is the backbone of Uganda's economy .
People that have grown up in harsh conditions tend to be miserable .
Countrymen enjoy international football than local football .
Is the country in a position to pay its debts ?
Uganda has lots of debt with other countries .
The national budget is prepared by the ministry of finance .
Misuse of public funds is punishable by law .
The supplementary budget was presented before parliament .
Who appoints the Inspector General of Government ?
He has ill manners .
I listened keenly to the president's speech .
She holds very high expectations of the future .
He did not fulfill any of his promises .
I promised to pay his school fees .
It is better for a landlord to have a land title .
The biggest part of the land in the central region is owned by the Kabaka .
I shall hand in my report on Monday .
The thief was killed last week .
I was in the hostel all throughout my university .
The report is under review .
The new education curriculum was officially introduced last year .
Parents should encourage their children to stay in school .
Is it necessary to set a minimum wage ?
How much is your gross salary a month ?
Uganda Airlines has resumed its operations .
I plan to travel abroad .
I was not impressed by the whole story .
When is the next football league ?
What brings you happiness ?
Life after death remains a mystery .
Some of his relatives died of coronavirus .
Her grandson died in prison .
She told her version of the story .
The martyrs were of Anglican and Catholic faith .
I hosted the birthday party from my home .
Muslims make pilgrimages to Mecca .
What must be included in this report ?
The schoolboy was left stranded in the bus park .
He is a liar ,  I cant trust him .
I travel by bus to school .
The report will be put in the newspapers .
Old people should avoid walking very long distances .
Some people died on their pilgrim walk to Namugongo martyrs shrines last year .
The couple signed the marriage agreement .
People in war-torn areas seek peace elsewhere .
Religious leaders advocate for peace among people .
My grandfather is a retired bishop .
The swearing-in ceremony is live on television .
His parents were of the Christian faith .
Mining activity is a threat to the environment .
What is required to carry out mining activities ?
Water supply has been properly regulated by the government .
It is human to eat and drink .
The story is to be continued .
My daughter fears caterpillars .
Some government programs are in place to assist the youths .
Commercial agriculture is a source of income .
Several projects have been put in place to skill the youths .
Pilgrims from all parts of the country visit Namugongo on martyrs day .
Boda Bodas is a faster means of transport compared to vehicles .
Her father is a Ugandan while her mother is Dutch .
Some people are discriminated against based on age ,  race ,  gender ,  or disability .
I always prepare ahead of time .
When is martyrs' day celebrated ?
The final wedding preparations are today .
Tourists come to visit the Namugongo martyrs shrines .
He is a boda-boda rider .
Every third of June ,  thousands of people visit the Namugongo shrines .
Believers make pilgrims an act of righteousness .
The Uganda Martyrs are celebrated every year in June .
The rehearsals shall begin tomorrow .
He hired a lawyer to assist him throughout the court case .
Maximize every opportunity at hand .
The stakeholders shall be given accountability .
She told me everything I needed to know .
Does Uganda have a railway line ?
The government borrows money from other countries
Education has caused a great impact on society .
The presidential advisors are appointed by the president himself .
She sold her piece of land to the investor .
New domestic taxes have been introduced .
The social media tax has been removed .
The village was attacked by rebels yesterday .
What causes tribal wars ?
All the casualties were rushed to the hospital .
Uganda is a peaceful country .
Most of the activities are carried out during the day .
There is income inequality in Uganda .
The security sector was given priority in the current budget .
He covered the incident at the scene .
I watched the reading of the budget live on the television .
Uganda is a member of the East African Community .
Most of the tax rates have been increased this financial year .
Uganda received foreign aid to fight coronavirus .
The secretary will share the highlights of the meeting .
The president's national address was shown live on every television .
How often does the president address the nation ?
His message was clearly understood by everyone .
Parents shall pick their children's reports from school today .
What is the role of presidential advisors ?
There is so much to learn about the law .
A special committee was put in place to solve land disputes .
What is the purpose of the supplementary budget ?
I doubt their level of integrity .
Why do we need a budget ?
The agriculture sector contributes to the economic growth of the country .
I employ over thirty workers on my farm .
The industries in Namanve have provided jobs for the residents .
Some parts of Uganda have no electricity supply .
Do not tell him everything .
The suspects will be taken to court .
What is your religious name ?
We are waiting for the police report on the murder .
He was arrested for being idle and disorderly .
There is no debate on the president's directive .
We had a very long conversation yesterday .
The court found her guilty of the crime .
Under what conditions can the court cancel an election ?
We had two people in the classroom with the same name .
She is a very friendly person .
I will build a house in the future .
When he admitted to the crime ,  he was forgiven .
Is police lawfully allowed to torture prisoners ?
He is being investigated for embezzling public funds .
Banks loan money to people .
I only managed to watch the news headlines .
Many people have lost their jobs during the pandemic season .
Many Ugandans prefer to live in the city .
When you work together ,  you achieve a lot .
Do not sign an agreement without reading through .
Jobs improve people's standards of living .
Industrial pollution is a threat to the environment .
What should be done to conserve the environment ?
Many industries have been constructed in wetlands .
Crops like rice ,  millet ,  and others grow in wetlands .
I use a lot of water on my farm .
During the national address ,  he talked about the increasing number of corona patients .
The rentals were built in a swampy place .
Politicians are not trustworthy .
He owns the biggest farm in the area .
He feels hopeless after testing positive with the Human Immune Virus .
How is the coronavirus disease spread ?
We have a cancer institute in Mulago hospital .
Hospitals need to be well equipped with the necessary medical facilities .
Youths have been encouraged to take hold of any opportunity available .
I was asked to present my bank statement to the embassy .
Can a court ruling be objected to ?
The teacher's comment on the academic report was so pleasing .
The former members of parliament are now mere normal citizens .
I was very disappointed by her behavior .
Most of the government programs have not been successfully implemented .
Despite his wonderful business ideas ,  he has not started a single business .
The report was written in English .
Red is my favorite color .
All her secrets were exposed .
Some politicians are after their gains .
Our company manager was fired .
She is a qualified journalist .
He has been in jail for ten years now .
The program is broadcast live every weekend .
She owns one of the most prominent radio stations .
I now prefer to purchase unlimited internet bundles .
Boxers use a lot of energy .
Our wedding date was postponed due to the sudden lockdown .
Sewerage management assists in preventing diseases .
Centenary park is located along Kampala-Jinja road .
Part of our house is in the road reserve .
He can hardly afford to pay for his monthly rent .
Landlords have all the right to make decisions over their property .
Who are some of the people that received heroes' medals ?
How do we benefit from this project ?
The Christmas season is a celebration time for most people .
Most of the famous big people in the political party will not be contesting .
The supporters said the Electoral Commission had made up the election results .
Some family heads have failed to feed their families because of the lockdown .
There are land disputes in the Northern part of Uganda .
The leaders called for a public meeting over the ongoing land wrangles .
There will be a land survey meeting tomorrow .
Preparations to solve land disputes in Amuru are ongoing .
Locals are not in support of individuals participating in the exercise .
Party members are not satisfied with the laws governing the party .
He made an in-depth study of the political party .
The tribal wars in Northern Uganda still exist .
Elections for district leaders are yet to start in Tororo District .
Many of the vendors still fight the city council authorities .
Street vendors always cause harm to themselves while escaping the police .
Street vendors have continued to illegally operate in the city center .
Laws regarding possession of weapons need to be strengthened in the country .
The General didn't act according to the law .
This is a biography about a man that moved from one job to another .
He has embraced technology and merged it with business .
He emerged among the best young entrepreneurs at the awards yesterday .
It is evident that young people have also ventured into entrepreneurship .
The minister will be in Northern Uganda to solve land disputes .
Some people believe that the land is being sold to foreign investors .
Some leaders in this country do not acceptably conduct themselves .
Ugandan youth are not satisfied with the Ministers that were appointed .
These events have always come up during this time .
Some parts of this country still have people living miserably .
The people in this area rely on the little money earned from stone quarrying .
He made a physical visit to the village to gather more information .
Environmental conservation is key in a country's development .
Cases of defilement are on the rise in Kasese District .
The organization is seeking justice for all the girls who were defiled .
The national football team acquired a new head coach ahead of the tournament .
The violence in Amuru was caused by the Minister forcefully taking people's land .
Women in Northern Uganda protested against land grabbing .
The journalists made a report while they were in Gulu .
The winner of the national election was announced hours after the election .
All presidential candidates had arrived at Bombas ground by 3 pm .
The deputy elect to the president physically attended the event .
We are yet to establish why the country is living in fear .
To reduce the voter's anxiety the electoral commission kept releasing partial results .
The church came out to say that they don't support the land amendment bill .
They have been called upon to fight the proposed law .
Construction of the new big prison facility is underway .
The prison facility will host a large number of inmates serving long sentences .
They are trying to fight the production of fake products .
There is still production of fake products on the market .
Police arrested most of the opposition leaders .
The party requested for permission to carry out their demonstration .
The police arrested locals for failing to preserve natural resources .
Government officials have spearheaded the fight against environmental degradation .
Several deaths among pregnant mothers have been caused by abortions .
The law on abortion in Uganda is not favorable for many women .
He tasked the center to produce competent lawyers at the end of the program .
Lawyers have continued to misuse their profession .
He addressed the administration of the Law Development Center this morning .
The lawmakers have been asked to prioritize matters of the youth .
The youth have not been given all the support they need to become successful .
The speaker represented the country at a conference held in Midrand .
The conference focused on empowering the youth .
How long does it take the court to solve election petitions ?
What are parliamentary election cases ?
Many people have doubts about the results of the parliamentary elections .
There has been an effort to draft laws that govern land in this country .
Cases regarding land are on the rise due to mismanagement .
Tribalism is still being practiced in Kenya today .
Kenya's elections resulted into violence .
An in-depth study on recent violence in the country is being carried out .
The public has failed to work with the city council authority .
The city council authorities fear for their lives as their job has become dangerous .
The fight against the age limit bill continues .
Police continues to arrest top politicians in the country .
Many new businesses have challenges with sustainability .
All elections in Kenya are conducted by the Electoral Boundaries Commission .
He decided to stay quiet during the announcement of the election results .
He is being accused of defrauding Bank of Uganda .
Another form of conflict resolution which is mediation is being explored .
The accused person is not in support of mediation .
Uganda has lost one of the soldiers that fought for her peace and stability .
He was a member of the ruling party before his death .
His life will be celebrated at the cathedral .
She made a detailed report on the matter .
The Ugandan Table Tennis player will move to Germany for a training camp .
He cant be compared to any other male player in the country .
A joint verification committee will decide on which Ugandan traders shall be compensated .
The new Federation of Uganda Football Associations appointed a new president .
Football is one of the most sought-after sports in this country .
Cross-border movement between Uganda and Kenya is a result of the elections .
Cargo Drivers fled to Uganda because of the political atmosphere in Kenya .
He came second to his main challenger in the presidential race .
She presented a report on the opposition leader's failed attempt at the presidency .
The authority has lost so much money to tax debtors .
Some traders are taking advantage of the corrupt system not to pay their taxes .
They were caught with fake documents .
There is a misunderstanding between the refugees and locals over the forest resources .
Road construction works are very expensive .
I love to visit beautiful places .
Sometimes the police behave in a very brutal way .
Leaders are accountable to the people they lead .
The girls have been skilled with hairdressing and tailoring skills .
I did not understand the explanation .
What time does the news start ?
Uganda still has plenty of land for development .
Some of the cars on the road are in a very poor state .
We bought a brand new family car this year .
The public has been sensitized on how to prevent coronavirus .
I own a piggery farm .
A good judgment should be fair and unbiased .
A good employer is one that pays his or her workers on time .
What makes him a very prominent businessman ?
Some of the youths have joined boxing .
She is a talented musician .
A lot has changed in your absentia .
Her brother is now a kickboxer .
His dream is to become a movie star in the future .
Who won the boxing championship ?
How many players are on a football team ?
I want to learn how to play football .
We shall play a friendly match with the other team .
He works in the bank .
Money laundering is an illegal activity .
She is very fluent in Swahili .
New leaders were sworn into new positions of power .
Hospitals help in saving people's lives .
What are some of the non-communicable diseases ?
In some families ,  fathers are the sole providers .
Some people have been assassinated in broad daylight .
How many members are in the choir ?
The choir from Masaka Archdiocese sang during this year's scientific martyr's day celebrations .
The rehearsals were very successful .
Workers need to execute their duties with all due diligence .
Land cases should be taken to court .
Traffic officers provide traffic guidelines on the road .
What is the route to Namugongo shrines ?
I visited the Namugongo shrines last martyr's day .
Some people tend not to fulfill their pledges .
What do we find in the Uganda martyrs museum ?
It is good to appreciate others .
There is an increasing income inequality gap in Uganda .
Different people earn differently depending on their roles and responsibilities .
Please go and consult her .
The electoral commission is in charge of nominating political candidates .
How many presidential candidates were nominated ?
News keeps us informed about very many things .
My uncle is a missionary preacher .
You reap what you sow .
Muslims pray from the mosque while Christians pray from the church .
We celebrated our father on father's day .
There is difficulty in delivering better services in the capital city .
There is a need to develop other regions in the country .
The heavy rains distorted the mass as pilgrims fled in search of shelter .
Entrepreneurs seize available business opportunities .
The Electoral Commission is to conduct a fresh election for that constituency .
He stole the votes .
The electoral commission has officially allowed politicians to campaign .
He lost interest in the race .
The court has confirmed their innocence .
They were released on bail .
The investigations were carried out last year .
He reports about the history of the Ugandan Martyrs .
They said that he was innovative ,  creative ,  and kind .
What happened during the funeral service ?
The orphans were to remain under their mother's care .
She presented a report .
The early missionaries spread Christianity in Uganda .
The Uganda martyrs are part of Uganda's history .
The catholic church has been in service for centuries .
All security agencies provide security to the people .
The police protects people and their property .
How did the martyrs die ?
Most of the Uganda Martyrs were Anglicans .
She found out why he cheated .
Martyrs day is a public holiday in Uganda .
Alcohol is not for those under the age of eighteen years .
Tourists come from all over the world to visit the Namugongo shrines .
He left prison with scars all over his body .
Every area has a police station .
How many people attended the meeting ?
How many members are part of the committee ?
All security officers are legally allowed to hold and use guns while on duty .
The case has been adjourned until further notice .
Internal conflicts hinder unity and growth .
Everyone has a right to vote for the candidate of their choice .
A bigger proportion of Uganda's population is youths .
He is one of the suspected criminals .
He campaigned in all parts of the country .
I shall travel to the village next week .
The village chairperson connived with land robbers to steal residents' land .
What is the role of local councils ?
The national budget is passed every financial year .
Due to the prevalence of the pandemic ,  the country's economy has been greatly affected .
It is the responsibility of the citizens to pay taxes set by the government .
She does not know administration and law .
Journalists play a very important role .
The Kabaka of Buganda is a wealthy man .
The fertile land in Uganda has facilitated crop husbandry .
The teacher explained the topic very well .
The ministry of lands is entrusted to assist in solving land issues .
I explored through the town before settling there .
Bloodshed is a threat to the security of this area .
Very many people suffer as a result of their ignorance .
Do not involve yourself in other people's battles .
The constitution gives proper guidelines on how some things should be done .
The landowners must have proof of ownership .
My phone can only contain one sim card .
Make sure your sim card is registered in your name .
I deposit my monthly savings in the bank .
What punishment is given to those that dishonor court orders ?
What is your response to this ?
What is the root cause of their problems ?
What were the findings of your research ?
He had to give the police officer money to be released from prison .
Most of the corrupt officials are investigated by the anti-corruption unit .
People freely give bribes to traffic officers .
The report did not provide the necessary details .
He was the guild president of the university last academic year .
Eat well to keep a healthy body .
What are some of the good healthy habits ?
Most families do not have what to eat during this lockdown .
Some diseases are a result of poor feeding .
Technology has simplified and eased life .
He has been poor his entire life .
My mother started up her own business .
The country had presidential elections in January this year .
How does Uganda benefit from some of its partnerships ?
The public is encouraged to report all crimes to the police .
He is now a major general in the army .
His brother serves in the army of Uganda .
There are many kinds of coronavirus treatment options .
A bigger percentage of the criminals are drug abusers .
Most youths are introduced to drugs by their peers .
She is a mother of three .
Some people have continued to survive with the Human Immune Virus .
How can we control the spread of the Human Immune Virus ?
The country holds presidential elections every after five years .
Who heads the Uganda Electoral commission ?
Many people have lost their lives due to mob justice .
The letter I received did not have any details of the sender .
Every after an investigation ,  the police give a report .
What were the terms of the agreement ?
Government organizations and projects are audited by the office of the Auditor-General .
What is the importance of auditing an organization ?
The prison spokesperson reported on the sick prisoners .
How does police identify suspects from the community ?
Investigations require adequate time .
Some dams help in generating hydroelectric power .
He was hired to do the job in two weeks .
Everything should be included in the annual report .
The court hearing starts today .
The murderer was arrested and taken to Luzira prison .
She described to me the whole scenario .
Some of the corona patients are receiving treatment from Namboole stadium .
He wants to join the soccer team .
He is a lawyer by profession .
Government should prioritize the health sector ,  especially during this pandemic season .
Uganda has very many debts from other countries .
My wedding budget is in millions of money .
Uganda has in many instances received donations from other countries .
Food was distributed to several parts of the country in the first lockdown .
How much money was allocated to the tourism sector in this current budget ?
Ministries are funded by the government .
How do I write a report ?
His business is strategically located .
The president has a wonderful vision for the country .
The training will take two weeks .
Hunger can lead to death .
I live in the northern part of Rubaga division .
The prime minister offered Ugandans a coronavirus relief fund .
What is the role of the Inspector General of Police ?
I cant trust him anymore .
She falsely accused him of rape .
Indiscipline security officials are punishable by law .
He did not commit the offense even though there is no evidence .
He is a prominent businessman .
Journalists play a very important role in the country .
It is good to forgive those that have offended you .
The journalists were beaten by the police .
Ugandans are fond of begging for food and money from the government during the lockdown .
The president cant solve everything .
The public has a right to participate in elections .
What is the largest ethnic group in Uganda ?
Due to the prevalence of coronavirus ,  funds have been invested in buying vaccines .
Most of the public hospitals in Uganda lack adequate medical equipment .
What should be done to improve the health sector in Uganda ?
There has been a drop in the number of coronavirus new cases .
This cultural gathering is to show that these countries work together .
The festival is usually held in one of the countries every year .
The leaders should work together to fight corruption .
The cooperation unites regional leaders .
The chiefs always conduct meetings .
Many people lost their property .
The ministry did not have enough funds .
Affected families were given food and clothes .
Many people's houses were destroyed .
Some believers were burned to death .
Some pastors are not on good terms with one another .
There are many health centers in the country .
Most laboratories do not have enough testing kits .
There are few laboratory technicians in this nation .
He was suffering from ulcers .
One of the best footballers died .
Many girls are sexually harassed .
Some defilement cases are not reported .
There are many causes of early marriages .
Many roads are in poor condition .
Bad roads affect businesses .
There is a high theft rate of cars .
Congo was affected by the war .
People should take good care of their cars .
That pastor has many followers .
It is not good to judge people .
He has a big church .
The water problem will be resolved .
There are few water sources in that region .
The project will be very expensive .
Many students received terror threats .
There is no evidence regarding these allegations .
The university deployed more security personnel .
The journalist met with the university leaders .
The leader was given a big assignment .
The lawyer said that they expect many theft cases during this season .
The law society hired a very qualified and experienced lawyer .
He has enough experience in journalism .
Many people are tortured when in prison .
The arrested mayor was later found innocent .
The stadium was neglected .
The drainage system of the stadium was not good .
The stadium was renovated by a team of experienced engineers .
The city leaders secretly sold the market land .
The ministry is constructing roads in most parts of the country .
The police officer called upon other institutions to intervene .
More police officers were deployed to tighten the security .
Some people did not like the president's statement .
People no longer have time to listen to the radio .
The president informed people about the bill .
Two women were killed .
The woman was murdered by a group of businessmen .
She was murdered mysteriously .
The criminals were not allowed out of prison .
Two people died from poisoned food .
The murdered boy was very young .
There is a doctors` conference every year .
Many murder suspects were arrested .
The case is still being investigated .
Many people lost their land .
Surveyors did not give the owners of the land their documents
The residents were not informed about the survey .
The high court did not have any proof .
The judge said there was no evidence about the murder of the army man .
Courts were temporarily closed .
The prisons are very congested .
The murdered women were very innocent .
The leader of that political party retired from politics .
The businessman was sacrificing people for wealth .
The minister said that the murderers were mostly interested in women .
The transport system was affected .
Drivers have an association that unites them .
Drivers are not happy with the current management .
Many legislators do not attend parliamentary meetings .
The weekly physical meetings have been put on hold because of the pandemic .
Some members of parliament refuse to attend the meetings .
People are encouraged to use bank agents .
Most mobile agents also serve as bank agents .
Nurses were on strike for two weeks .
The minister requested nurses to resume their work .
Farmers need to create associations .
Working as a team will help them to easily access financial services .
Farming groups will be supported .
Some items from the supermarket were auctioned .
Many businesses no longer have money to continue .
Road construction requires a lot of money .
African countries need to work together .
The countries will benefit from each other if they unite .
Ministers always attend annual foreign lectures .
The sheikh was charged with terrorism .
The terrorists were assisted .
The mines in Kasese were mismanaged .
The investors did not have enough skills .
There was a foot and mouth disease outbreak in western Uganda .
Many murder cases were reported in Entebbe and Wakiso .
The murderers were working in groups .
Parliamentary activities were halted .
Security ministers did not attend the meeting .
Some murder suspects were imprisoned .
One suspect was found in a hut .
Some families were sent away from their land .
Police created different committees to investigate the murder cases .
Police and the army are independent entities .
People no longer trust the police .
The security agencies are working hard to restore peace .
The police is using different tactics to fight the murderers .
There are many gaps in the security of this country .
The police must protect people`s lives .
Many youths joined the army .
Some legislators presented their concerns to parliament regarding the increased murder cases .
The President called upon all security organizations to work together .
Some women were raped before being killed .
Many people don't feel safe .
Some police officers are corrupt .
The police needs to apply other strategies .
Many people enjoy watching football .
He is one of the best footballers in the country .
An international footballer gave charity to poor families .
Many workers are exploited by their employers .
Some exploited workers are not helped when they seek legal help .
The national team is now participating in international football championships .
The structures of various schools are not in good condition .
Many schools in rural areas do not perform well .
Many people quit their jobs because they are not paid well .
People need to develop a habit of saving .
Workers need to change their way of working .
There is a high rate of deforestation .
People are being advised to plant more trees .
Prolonged droughts have affected farming .
There is a food shortage in the northern region .
Many youths are dealing in drugs .
Some drug addicts have been imprisoned from other countries .
Some countries sentence people that abuse drugs to death .
Many Muslims go to Mecca every year .
Mecca is considered a holy city .
They surveyed the land illegally .
The survey exercise should be stopped .
Many people do not agree with the land bill .
The marriage bill needs to be revised .
The bill is not fair .
The President encourages people to participate in co-curricular activities .
Many children participate in the scout`s week .
Affected people were advised to relocate to other areas .
People in that area should be prepared for any disaster .
The national team footballers should do enough practice .
The team traveled to Egypt .
Some people were chased away from their land .
There were land wrangles in Hoima .
He is supervising the project in Hoima .
Many people are starving .
The previous harvesting season was not good .
There was a severe famine .
The election results were canceled .
The chairman said that the decision was not good .
There were many demonstrations during the elections .
He won the elections .
The last elections were rigged .
Only six suspects were detained .
Solar lights were installed on the streets .
Installing street lights in the whole city will be an expensive project .
The believers accused their church leader .
He is involved in politics .
News reporters released wrong information .
He blamed the article editors .
Legislators collected different signatures .
Many people died during the eviction .
The minister was accused of inciting violence .
The market vendors need new leaders .
Many officials were interested in the oil and gas money .
Most ministers possess big farms .
The government is expecting to earn a lot of money from oil and gas .
Over-staying in leadership is not good .
He was a great leader .
The journalist who was present has a report about the event .
The national team qualified for the tournament .
The national team lost the competition .
Uganda Cranes is hoping for a transformation .
The team is doing all the necessary training .
There are national schools` football competitions every year .
The authority is looking for the best ways to cut costs .
A lot of money is spent on road construction .
The authority is using domestic engineers .
Civil servants may strike due to low salaries .
Many people earn less compared to the work they do .
Civil servants have a union that puts them together .
The union`s request was not considered .
The businessman lost the land case .
The land belonged to a certain group of traders .
The eviction was not successful .
That football team was highly respected .
Many scouts participated in the annual youth camp .
Children from different parts of the country participated .
Children are taught various skills .
He returned to the national team .
Football competitions encourage hard work .
The national team played against one of the strong teams in Africa .
People cut down trees to get timber for sale .
Many people were killed during the rebel attacks .
It is important to study about the environment .
A report on the presidential elections was released .
Free and fair elections promote the political stability of a country .
She has more details on the story .
We have witnessed a high level of vote-rigging in this presidential election .
He is the founder of that political party .
We have given the president a full report on the security adjustments .
Many people lost their lives during the tribal war .
Women have taken up high positions in government .
Military police beat journalists during campaigns .
Shops at the border points were closed on election day .
Our office will be open after the presidential election .
The opposition leader claimed to have evidence of election malpractice .
Someone has tampered with my computer .
The results proved that she was raped .
This evidence will push our investigations forward .
He told the whole community the news .
There was a massive turn-up at the election polls .
Some people did not vote .
The government has built a modern market in our town .
Some street vendors cant afford to pay for the market stalls .
She updated us about the current situation .
There is a measles outbreak in our village .
Sick people should always be taken to health facilities .
He told them the story .
He has moved out of this year's parliamentary race in favor of his opponent .
They were brought before a court of law .
The internet was shut down during election time .
We are not allowed to move at night .
The people in the rural areas participated highly in this year's presidential election .
The streets of Kampala were empty by midday .
Uganda Airlines started operating last year .
I will book my flight ticket to Nairobi tomorrow .
Domestic flights will be available .
The government has failed to recruit teachers .
The government has promised to put in more funds in the education sector .
Opposition leaders claim that some foreigners voted .
He gave us all the details of what took place .
The news will be shown on television later today .
The ruling party won the elections for the third time .
There were two more aspirants in the presidential race .
How did he manage to win people's hearts ?
Aspiring candidates have been given enough time to campaign .
She died of breast cancer .
He was stationed in the neighboring country .
He is the minister's bodyguard .
Why do those people love their president so much ?
He has a working experience of twenty years .
She is the woman member of parliament elected for that district .
Sugarcane is largely grown in the eastern part of Uganda .
The sugarcane business was not profitable last season .
They will begin commercial sugar cane growing next year .
He updated his friends about the current situation .
He gave the participants money in support of the sport .
The money was given to the volleyball players in cash .
They are greedy for power .
She explored the details of businesses in Kenya .
The government will ensure peaceful elections this year .
We were advised to return home after voting .
People are worried about the outcome of this year's election .
Peace will be maintained throughout the election .
How many years did he spend in prison ?
The manager of that bank was imprisoned for stealing money from customers' accounts .
He was involved in multiple crimes .
He reads the news every day .
He has aspired to that post several times .
No one can challenge him in this game .
This island borders Kenya and Uganda .
The kickboxing team will be competing in another country .
They did serious training for this competition .
The leader was punished for negligence of the law .
Investigations about the fake land titles are going on .
She never responded to the lawsuit .
That is all he had to say .
There is an increase in teenage pregnancies these days .
Many young girls drop out of school due to unplanned pregnancies
The rate of family breakups is high these days .
Some children are mentally tortured because of their parents' divorce .
We need more information .
We have prayers at home every evening .
Most of my relatives live in America .
They prayed in their mother tongues .
They attended a church service in Boston .
We were able to see everything around this place .
Lawyers provide legal advice and guidance .
Some people are not happy with the president's decision .
I didn't pick a point from his speech .
Our population is smaller compared to other districts .
The electoral commission is ready for the general elections next week .
We should always keep peace in our communities .
The law enforcement officers arrested street vendors today in the morning .
Four law enforcement officers were suspended for violating the rights of street vendors .
She was knocked by a speeding car while running from police officers .
We will follow the story .
The lead judge concluded hearings and also set dates for the next proceedings .
Usually ,  pilgrims get stranded after martyrs day celebrations .
Relatives usually search for their missing persons from the police stations .
The government will be able to extend the power supply to the rural areas of the country .
The government of Uganda can be sued in courts of law by people .
Hospitals in Kampala have skilled and available doctors all time .
There are both private and government-owned hospitals in the country .
Overspeeding is one of the causes of road accidents .
News anchors investigate and report current situations in the country .
The government should put policy measures to guide the land tenure system .
Land disputes and grabbing are experienced more in the central part of the country .
The police has to investigate and give a report about the recent kidnaps and killing of women .
The legislature has to address the issues that are affecting people most .
The legislators are to elect the Speaker and Deputy Speaker of parliament next week .
Political parties learn from their mistakes during an election .
The police investigations and reports take long causing a delay in justice .
The Assistant Inspector-General of Police gave his opinion about the situation at hand .
The current situation and state of the police were broadcasted on national television .
The guest of honor arrived late for the celebrations .
Millions of people were addressed during the gathering .
Every year pilgrims make a trek to celebrate the martyrs .
Thousands of Christians gather to remember and celebrate the life of the martyrs .
Take a look at this new car I have bought .
Most Christians look forward to the annual celebrations of Martyr's day .
People from different parts of the country come together on this day .
The government should financially contribute to all church projects .
Banks ask for collateral before offering a loan .
The government should protect the church property from being taken by banks .
Political parties discipline their members who go astray from the parties' rules and guidelines .
Voter bribery and electoral malpractice dominated the recently concluded elections .
Women have a right to participate in the politics of the country .
The authorities depend on the money allocated to them in the budget .
Compensation disputes can be settled outside the courtroom .
Some people get to be compensated before evacuation .
Few people were planned for during budget planning .
Most businesses face debts .
Most businesses today collapse because they employ family members ,  friends ,  and relatives .
Campaigns and elections should not be religion-based because it causes separation amongst people .
The church should not involve itself in politics .
Every eligible citizen has a right to vote for any person of their choice .
Campaigns can be carried out harmoniously by political parties without accusations .
Fire outbreaks have to be insured by business owners .
The police should investigate and make a report about the rapid-fire outbreaks .
There has been an increase in the number of fire outbreaks in the country .
The fire and rescue team should procure more firefighting equipment .
There was an eyewitness when it all happened .
Delays in investigations and evidence collection make court hearings take long .
Many criminals cant afford to hire lawyers because they are expensive .
The construction of more power dams will increase the amount of electricity produced .
Policy measures should be implemented to solve land disputes .
Land disputes have caused delays to the projects .
A business is a separate legal entity from its owners .
Business transactions should be carried out transparently and honestly .
Audit reports are very important in managing and running a business .
Businesses experience losses .
News anchors investigate and report current situations in the country .
A business can get a loan to overcome the financial crisis .
An estimate of the compensation costs was included in the project budget .
Some people are compensated by the government .
Uganda has received two billion shillings to improve the transport sector .
There is no money for compensation .
Most projects aim at improving people's lives .
The storm destroyed people's homes .
There has been an increase in the crime rate in Uganda .
There has been an increase in the number of women who commit crimes .
Providing wrong and false information is a crime .
Tororo is found in the western part of Uganda .
Tororo Archdiocese led the catholic mass in this year's martyrs celebrations .
Uganda's education system should shift from teaching history to current affairs .
Technical lessons and talent discovery should be encouraged in schools .
The government assured citizens of protection and safety .
The government should improve the country's internal security .
More jobs are going to be created during oil production .
Uganda has very many minerals .
The police should protect people and their property .
Road accidents have increased sharply in the country .
The traffic police should impose penalties against careless road drivers .
It was such a tragedy that the country experienced .
Twenty-two lives were claimed in a fatal road accident .
Pilgrims come from different parts of the country .
What was the cause of the fire outbreak ?
Fire outbreaks lead to the loss of property .
Television broadcasts bring the world closer to people .
Hospitals offer both first aid and treatment .
Some people do survive and recover from road accidents .
The government should build a larger and new sports arena .
There has been advancement in the country's technology .
The government official encouraged Ugandans to import and buy new cars .
Youths should be encouraged to acquire technical skills .
The competitions were carried out to search for new talent in comedy .
There is time for everything in people's lives .
People should establish their faith and trust in God at all times .
People should be patient with one another in order to be in peace and harmony .
Forests should be preserved .
The government should encourage people to plant trees to replace the ones cut .
Some of the pilgrims got to Namugongo on foot .
Many children in rural areas suffer from diarrhea .
Poor sanitation is one of the major causes of diarrhea .
He reported live from our village .
The project will bring a great impact on the agriculture sector in Uganda .
The government invested funds in agricultural inputs .
The government needs to support the informal sector .
Most of the businesses in the informal sector do not pay taxes .
The news reporter was beaten up by the police .
The senior bank officials were allegedly accused of fraud .
A bank was sued for breaching the contract .
More information is given in this report
The president of the football federation was given another term in office .
The politician was unopposed .
There is high traffic congestion in Kampala .
The immigration department is responsible for regulating travel in and out of Uganda .
Uganda Red Cross has its headquarters in Kampala .
You can read more about it .
The incumbent has served as the president of Rwanda for the last twenty years .
The leader got the highest number of votes during the presidential elections .
The politician was confident that he would be re-elected for a third term .
The journalist covered the news live from Kigali .
The president was the guest of honor at the groundbreaking ceremony .
The construction of the oil pipeline began last week .
The club has the best football players in the country .
Two organizations have sponsored the upcoming football tournament .
He is a sports editor at one of the local television stations .
The leader was falsely accused of rape .
There has been an increase in the number of rape cases .
The police is accused of arresting and torturing a suspect .
She is the officer in charge of that police post .
The law enforcement officers took away some of the goods confiscated from street vendors .
Those involved in the illegal selling of goods will be held accountable .
Four street vendors were killed yesterday during the chaos .
The elections in Rwanda were free and fair .
She has her own opinion about it .
There is more to the story .
The minister had a meeting with the district leaders .
The leaders disrespected the minister .
He never made a statement at the police regarding what happened .
There were riots in the city center streets .
The headquarters of Kampala Capital City Authority are found at City Hall .
The youth leader who led the protests was arrested .
Some government officials don't follow the laws governing the country .
The police has started their investigations in the land issues .
Nowadays ,  many infertile women use scientific methods to get pregnant .
All factories in town were relocated to the industrial area .
All the affected people will be compensated .
It has finally come to an end .
The meeting was postponed to Monday .
Security forces were ordered to leave the home of the opposition leader .
He was arrested for murdering his wife .
Land in Uganda belongs to its citizens .
The chair of the Electoral Commission will announce the results from the presidential elections .
The presidential elections took place in January this year .
Many people turned up for voting this year compared to the previous years .
We have a crew reporting live in Kenya .
We have a complaint about the behavior of the policemen in our community .
The leaders had a conflict over the sale of government land .
There is mismanagement of government property by some officials .
The minister didn't follow the instructions in carrying out the task .
The rebel group didn't take part in the peace talking agreements .
The rebel leader refused to sign the agreement until their terms are met .
We shall never rest until our leaders are freed .
It is recommended to breastfeed a newborn for the first six months .
Some mothers prefer to breastfeed their babies for two years .
If a baby is not breastfeeding directly ,  hand-on pumping is another alternative .
The reporter has the details from breastfeeding mothers .
Many people were forcefully evicted from their land .
Some unknown people threatened the woman legislator .
Everyone in the family now knows about the land wrangles .
He is the new coach of that football team .
Yesterday ,  the tycoon denied all allegations of misappropriation of funds .
The bank is not supposed to disclose any of its customers' details .
Ten people were killed during the deadly protests in the city center .
The speaker has suspended five legislators over a fight about the presidential age limit .
They were arrested later .
The news reporter will give the details in the news tonight .
The team is left with one match to play .
He is the current president of the football association .
The high court has dismissed his application .
The high taxes have affected hotel owners .
Some hotel owners have failed to pay their debts forcing many out of business .
As a role model ,  he demonstrated how mind and spirit combine to overcome difficulties .
The election results were announced after three days .
The news reporter was promoted to a news anchor .
There are three candidates contesting for the presidential seat .
The opposition leader wants to overthrow the long-serving president .
Uganda's female presidential candidate believes she is the right person for the seat .
The company manager was arrested and detained last week .
He is suspected to have stolen money from the government .
Five acres of maize were destroyed by the hail storms .
The heavy rains destroyed people's homes .
The report will be submitted at the end of the study .
Uganda has created a strong partnership with her neighbors .
Foreign investors were invited into the country .
Kaggwa was a human rights advocate at Uganda Human Rights Commission .
The assembly drafted the 1959 Constitution .
The parliament sat from one thousand nine hundred ninety-six to two thousand one .
East Africa Legislative Assembly is based in Arusha ,  Tanzania .
Kaggwa spent the last three years in the spotlight .
He was often before the parliament human rights committee to assure legislators of the efforts .
It was during his time that the Nalufenya police station in Jinja rose .
Kaggwa participated in the closure of Nalufenya .
Internal Security Organization was severally accused of torturing suspects .
He spent nearly thirty years in the promotion of constitutionalism and good governance .
Kaggwa was pronounced dead at Case Hospital on November twentieth .
He lost consciousness in his car around Mulago ,  Kampala .
Kaggwa did his best under very difficult circumstances .
Kaggwa visited me in military detention and told the world what was going on .
Kojan is a Congolese doctor .
He spent thirty minutes with the patient .
The patient died soon afterward .
I was frustrated .
We have to find a way to give really good care to patients .
Kojan came up with a way out .
The infectious disease was too serious .
Kojan conceptualized it after .
They saw patients with highly infectious diseases being cared for in special isolation units
Kojan worked with the French .
The temperature can be controlled .
They ensure that the patient gets better .
Patients can now be cared for closer to their communities .
There is a high level of mistrust among communities that see patients being taken away and returned dead .
Relatives and friends have no idea of what has happened to them .
Kojan says the family can come and see the patient .
Life changed with the new treatment .
Dr .  Kojan's invention of the portable Ebola treatment unit is being celebrated .
He was recently honored and awarded for the invention and his work .
The leader was attending a meeting in Abu Dhabi .
It is convened by His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed .
Professor Peter Piot is one of the award judges and directors .
Health workers are at high risk for acquiring Ebola infection .
In West Africa ,  over five hundred health workers died .
That's the reason you see people walking around in space suits .
Professor Piot is one of the researchers who first discovered Ebola .
I'm an old-fashioned physician and I think touch is very important in medicine .
When you draw blood you need feeling in your fingers .
This Cube allows a better dialogue with patients and it brings back humanity .
It's a game-changer for caring for patients with Ebola and other highly infectious diseases
Dr .  Kojan agrees: "In the traditional suit it's not possible to monitor the patient .
Frontline workers receive their Reach awards .
Richard Kojan ,  Olivia Ngou ,  and Rahane Lawal worked to tackle polio ,  Ebola ,  and malaria
Pictured with Bill Gates and Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed ,  Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi .
China has accused Zimbabwe of making a "serious mistake" .
It gave aid to the southern African nation .
At the time of his death ,  he was the chairman of the Uganda Human Rights Commission .
Under his administration ,  Uganda Human Rights Commission maintained its standards .
Under his term ,  Uganda Human Rights Commission received an award .
Speaker of Parliament Rebecca Kadaga described Kaggwa as a "big advocate for human rights"
She said Kaggwa always delivered his reports within the statutory period .
Kaggwa served as a special rapporteur on prisons and conditions of detention .
Kaggwa was known as a human rights advocate by virtue of his position .
He was a delegate of the one thousand nine hundred ninety-four Constituent .
This position catapulted him to the sixth parliament of Uganda .
In between ,  Kaggwa served as a minister for political affairs in the office of the President
Kaggwa also served as a representative of Uganda in the East Africa Legislative Assembly .
A lawyer by profession .
Fight against torture .
He faced a tough time in office .
Kampala Central Member of Parliament Mohammed Nsereko said Kaggwa will be remembered .
Ugandans were grappling with the re-emergence of safe houses as torture havens .
Kaggwa was a commissioner and former chairman of the Independent Permanent Human Rights Commission .
The organization described him as a skilled legal practitioner .
The public reacted with shock when news broke .
He was on his way to work when he lost consciousness in his car .
Presidential aspirant Bobi Wine said Kaggwa did his best .
During the Arua ordeal ,  Kaggwa visited me .
Despite working under a military dictatorship ,  Med always tried to promote rights .
Kaggwa attained a law degree from Makerere University .
He followed up a diploma in legal practice at the Law Development Centre .
Not long after his diploma ,  he was recalled at Law Development Center .
After Law Development Center ,  he worked for the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank .
He was a commissioner in charge of the Uganda Constitutional Commission .
He served as board secretary of the Uganda Revenue Authority .
He was a member of the Makerere University Council .
He also offered his services as vice-chairperson of Kyambogo University Council .
He is survived by a wife and six children .
Kaggwa was laid to rest at his ancestral home in Mpambire ,  Mpigi district .
The local art fraternity is almost familiar with the name Leonardo Da Vinci .
For the rest of the public ,  the name may sound unfamiliar .
Leonardo conceptualized these as ingenious objects over five hundred years ago .
An exhibition of some of his work has come to Kampala .
The exhibit dubbed "Leonardo Opera Omnia" showcases prints of the Mona Lisa .
The exhibition has seventeen works of Da Vinci .
Kampala is one of the only two destinations in Africa the exhibition is showing .
The other is Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia
The aptitude of the artist is visible in the technique of color application on canvas .
In fact ,  the latter painting acquires its timeless revered identity .
The exhibit marks five hundred years of the artist .
It also probes the critical role played by European art masters like Leonardo .
Many artists learn these elements and principles in art school .
Italy is sponsoring this exhibition which in the past consistently sponsored several local cultural initiatives .
The Embassy has previously supported art exhibitions .
An exhibition offers the public a rare opportunity to view firsthand the classical masterpieces .
This is the same concept that possessed Leonardo Da Vinci .
The exhibition opened on nineteenth November at the Uganda Museum ,  Kampala
China has accused Zimbabwe of making a "serious mistake" .
Zimbabwean Finance Minister Mthuli Ncube said the country receives money from donor countries .
The Chinese embassy in Harare put the figure .
This is a very serious mistake .
The Zimbabwean officials must give a full and convincing explanation .
Zimbabwe's Ministry of Information ,  Publicity ,  and Broadcasting responded .
A grieving family took their relative's corpse in a body bag to the office .
Thandaza Mtshali and her aunt Ntombenhle Mhlongo were filmed carrying the body of a relative .
The company had refused to pay out on a funeral policy claim .
The family said they were left 'distraught and traumatized' .
Ms .  Ntombenhle told News twenty-four: "We are not rich people"
We are poor and they were refusing to pay us
We had been trying for nine days to get it settled .
We thought if the documents do not give them enough answers .
He experienced a lot while responding to the Ebola pandemic in West Africa .
The time was not enough for the patient to wait .
It was not possible to give good care to that patient
He said that at the end of the outbreak in West Africa .
The way out is making innovative concepts .
It allows health workers to monitor the patient .
Kojan and his colleagues at Alima visited hospitals in France and the United Kingdom .
Highly infectious diseases include Ebola .
Kojan and his colleagues brought a Congolese inventor .
They are also easy to set up in about ninety minutes .
Family and friends can visit .
They are returned in body bags .
It has all happened in the intervening period
The patient can also see the family and who is treating them .
He said it changed for health workers ,  patients and families .
It is celebrated as a game-changer .
He was awarded by the Reaching the Last Mile forum in Abu Dhabi .
It comprises health leaders from across the globe .
Mohamed bin Zayed is the Crown Prince of Abu
Peter Piot is the director of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine .
The problem is health workers are exposed .
The suits were also intimidating for patients .
Doctor Kojan agrees that it's not possible to monitor the patient properly .
The workers received the awards at the Last Mile forum at Louvre Abu Dhabi .
Zimbabwe massively understood how much financial aid it gave to the southern African nation .
He had clocked ten years in the position .
The Commission received an award as the best National Human Rights Institution .
Kaggwa served for the African Human Rights Commission .
Med always tried to promote rights under very difficult circumstances .
Kaggwa attained a Master of Laws degree from the National University of Ireland .
He taught from one thousand nine hundred eighty-two to one thousand eighty-four .
He worked as a bank secretary and head of legal services for seven years .
He was in charge of publicity
From one thousand nine hundred ninety-one to one thousand nine hundred ninety-six .
From one thousand nine hundred ninety-nine to two thousand two .
He was a vice-chairperson from two thousand four until he died .
Med Kaggwa of Uganda's human rights boss dies .
Leonardo Da Vinci was a classical European painter .
The name correlates with modern science innovations .
Today they continue to be an inspiration to more technological innovations .
Among other outstanding works is an Italian artist .
The works were collected from more than ten countries across the world .
The artist intended to control the light from both sides .
The painting has an elusive smile of the female subject .
The show in Kampala invites conversations on how artists can produce art .
Artists in art school learn by studying artists like Leonardo Da Vinci's artworks .
The initiatives include the film festivals and "Leonardo Opera Omnia" exhibit .
The art exhibitions were both at Makerere art gallery and Nommo Gallery
The exhibition provides a platform to build more important relationships .
He envisioned the discipline of drawing ,  music ,  botany ,  science ,  and engineering .
The mistake is in massively understating how much financial aid .
In the year through September ,  of which just thirty-six dollars came from China .
The figure was close to one hundred thirty-seven million dollars .
Deputy ambassador Zhao Baogang said immediately after the figures were released .
The ministry responded by saying it was holding talks with Chinese officials .
The body was taken to the office of an insurance company .
They carried the body into the office of the African insurance company .
The funeral policy claim approximately eight million Uganda shillings .
The family couldn't afford funeral costs .
They at first told us it would only take forty-eight hours to sort out .
We thought maybe the body will give them enough answers .
The pandemic killed many people in the Democratic Republic of Congo .
A health worker needed to monitor the patient as the normal medical procedure requires .
They can also check their vital signs and administer certain treatments from the exterior .
The hospitals had a high-level isolation unit
They share insights and best practices on how to map out ,  eliminate and eradicate infectious diseases .
Mohamed bin Zayed is committed to ending preventable diseases .
Professor Peter is the one who described Ebola .
It was Zaire by then in One thousand nine hundred seventy-six .
Zimbabwe made the mistake in the first nine months of two thousand nineteen .
Kaggwa served many roles in human rights advocacy .
Kaggwa had a marked record as a politician .
Kaggwa served the Legislative Assembly from two thousand one to two thousand six .
Kaggwa answered questions on Uganda's deteriorating human rights record .
Nalufenya police station in Jinja rose to infamy as a torture center .
He participated in the new legislation that places individuals' responsibility on a police officer .
Leonardo is the artist who created the Mona Lisa .
He innovated the flying machines and concentrated solar power that we enjoy today .
In the painting ,  she crosses her hands .
The rare art will capture the imagination of diverse audiences across the world .
The exhibition will benefit the larger community .
The innovations have come to benefit diverse communities globally .
The insurance company refused payout until he was proven dead .
Seaweed ,  water lilies play a big role in biofiltration .
He said restoring the quarries enabled the cement firm to help in air purification .
The two quarries ,  Musando said are open to the public as nature parks .
Over two hundred thousand visitors a year visit Bamburi Haller Park .
He said East African children aged below twelve are charged three hundred Kenyan shillings .
The Nairobi Stock Exchange-listed firm fell sharply in twenty-eighteen .
Bamburi cement recorded an eighty-three percent drop in tax profit .
Twelve billion in the previous year ,  citing a shrinking market in Kenya .
The firms also blamed profit drop on higher operating costs .
An industry analyst told Reuter news agency that cement volumes in Kenya grew by nine percent .
Increased competitive pressure fueled by a growing gap between installed cement grinding capacity .
Bamburi Cement's initiative to successfully rehabilitate and conserve biodiversity earned it global recognition .
Replicating the same in Kasese ,  Tororo Hima the place Bamburi Cement's subsidiary .
The residents cite dust all over the vicinity ,  something similar to that in Mombasa could do them well .
Musando says similar work is going on at Hima though not extensive as in Kenya .
He cites differences in laws governing the cement mining processes .
He said Hima is doing much better in integrating communities to conserve the environment .
Hima is doing alternative fuels as the plant runs largely on environmentally friendly fuel .
No freebies to the surrounding communities this similar in Uganda .
Instead ,  the firm offers business opportunities to the local communities .
We buy trees for planting on our land from the neighboring communities .
We aim to show them how to work for themselves .
The cement firm also extends free maternal health care to the neighboring communities .
Rehabilitated vegetation at Bamburi Haller Park .
Cash Chat mobile application has been unveiled on the Ugandan market .
The Cash Chat Mobile application is powered by Pesamoni
Over four hundred global users have signed up on the mobile application .
Edgar Ofoyuru is the products Designer at Bold Cashers Limited .
They spent two years in prison .
The application is easy to use once downloaded from Google Play Store .
Bold Casher's Limited and developer of the Cash Chat mobile application ,  Asher Namanya Asanasio .
Hima Cement has introduced a new cement type called RapidSet
Chief Executive Officer Jean Michel said the real estate sector and construction continue to grow .
On November twenty-second he said ,  this drives our commitment to innovative solutions .
RapidSet is recommended for concrete applications such as culverts ,  pavers ,  bridge beams ,  and others .
It is available in thirty kilograms bags .
State Minister for Works Katumba Wamala said Hima will continue to benefit from local content .
Hima Cement's production capacity is at one million eight hundred thousand tons per annum .
On November twenty-first the Nile Breweries limited team contributed a hundred crates of beer .
The members of Busoga Royal concepts led by David Nsiyona received the contribution .
Beyond the coronation anniversary ,  the company pledged to continue supporting the Kingdom's initiatives .
Information and Communication Technology companies in Uganda are moving to capture the international market .
Albert Mucunguzi ,  the chairperson of the Information and Communication Technology Association of Uganda .
The Association is doing this through initiatives like the Netherlands Trust Fund four Programme .
The two-day expo also saw Information Communication Technology players pitch their ideas .
Vicent Bagiire ,  the permanent secretary at the Ministry of Information Communication Technology .
Hima cement launches RapidSet Cement New app .
Aerolink Uganda has announced that the airline will begin to serve the Mbarara Airfield
The carrier will not operate during the rainy seasons in April ,  May ,  and November .
The airline will combine the stop in Mbarara with their flights to Queen Elizabeth National park .
The new stop will for the first time allow visitors of the Emburara Farm Lodge
The lodge will provide pick-up and drop-off services .
Passengers on the flight will also reach lake Mburo National Park with ease .
This development will put Uganda on par with Kenya and Tanzania .
Aerolink Uganda to connect Mbarara Business construction Aviation experts .
General Katumbe Wamala launched the Hima Cement .
Centenary Bank General Manager Corporate Communications and Marketing Beatrice Lugalambi rewarded four winners .
Centenary Bank customers are rewarded for transacting using cente visa and cente agents .
This was on November twenty-sixth at Capital Shoppers in Nakawa .
Uganda Broadcasting Deputy Managing Director ,  Maurice Mugisha and others display coupons for winners .
Alfred Ochwo the United Nations Development Programme Uganda Resident Representative .
Twenty-one ,  which will be implemented over three years .
The Independent Chinese mobile phone maker ,  Transsion has unveiled its latest smartphone .
The device ,  priced at five hundred ninety-nine thousand shillings has thirty-two Megapixels .
Gladys Liu ,  the Marketing Manager in Uganda ,  said the launch of Infinix Samsung five .
At Infinix ,  we are committed to bringing the latest technologies to young consumers .
Infinix Samsung five is powered by Media Tek Helio Patch twenty-two .
In addition to infinix ,  Transsion has succeeded in positioning its two other brands .
The firm's three mobile phone brands were mid this year featured .
Tecno ,  itel ,  and infinix ranked fifth ,  seventeenth ,  and twenty-sixth respectively .
The Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo has spread since August twenty-eighteen .
The Personal Protective Equipment is heavy and hot .
Doctors and nurses only wear it for thirty minutes and then wash it .
That means health workers cannot spend adequate time with patients .
Doctor Richard Kojan is an intensive care specialist for the French non-governmental organization Alima
As a result of limestone mining ,  the East African market environment is degraded .
The communities around the factory had a good share of social and economic problems .
The firm has been in operation for more than two decades in Hima .
David Gumisiriza said in reference to Bambrui's environmental initiatives in Kenya
Bamburi Cement has built diverse ecosystems of forests ,  grasslands ,  and wetland habitats .
Bamburi cement had to cut prices to boost market share .
Bamburi said the shrinking market has played a key role in the market dynamics .
Hima cement factory is located in a state where Bamburi was many years ago .
In Uganda government gives a share of its tourism revenues to neighboring communities .
The cement firm helped set up a cancer center run by the Coastal General Hospital .
The birthday and Coronation anniversary celebrations of Busoga's Kyabazinga William Gabula Nadiope the fourth .
He revealed that the first Swarm Summit and Tech Expo on November twenty-second twenty nineteen .
Breweries aid Busoga's Kyabazinga Information Technology companies to eye the international market .
Using Mbarara bypass highway to get on the fast track to park and lodges .
Elsie Attafuah launched United Nations Development Programme Accelerator Lab Uganda worth eight billion shillings .
It is part of the sixty accelerator labs globally .
Infinix Samsung five is to tap into the fastest Ugandan growing market segment .
Samsung five is a great manifesto of the brand purpose and mission of the Samsung series .
The mobile maker listed its shares on Shanghai Stock Exchange ,  China ,  last October .
Tecno and Itel for the African market .
The Top hundred most admired Brands in Africa list compiled by Africa Business Magazine .
Ebola-infected more than two thousand people ,  killing at least one thousand five hundred .
The firm has been in operation in Kasese in the South Western part of Uganda .
The corpse was dropped off at an old mutual office .
The I-virgin product is controversial .
The user has to insert a pill in the vagina for a couple of hours
In some cultures ,  a virginity check is a life or death situation .
The family pays compensation if the bride fails the test .
There are other products available on the market .
Virginity faking capsules are available on the market .
The wedding day is special and people want to make it an awesome day .
A Ghanian couple did a wonderous thing on their wedding day .
The identities of the couple were unknown .
People cheered up for the bride as she arrived in a white coffin .
The friends opened up the coffin and the bride was happy and posing .
The creativity left people wondering and confused .
People compared it to the Undertakers' entry into the world of wrestling entertainment .
Some people referred to it as something frightening and stupid .
The family took the man's corpse to the insurance company .
A four thousand three hundred bill has been tabled .
It can float like a boat or rise above the waves using hydraulic pilings .
It costs five and a half million dollars with four bedrooms ,  a living room ,  and a kitchen .
The mansion is the ultimate luxury .
Mazda three was the women's world car award in two thousand nineteen .
The jury represents over thirty countries .
The factors considered included aesthetic appearance ,  practicality ,  safety ,  environmental footprint ,  and value for money .
The big winner was announced at the Dubai international motor show in two thousand nineteen .
Automakers say that the three are based on designing the car around the human being .
Mazda has made advancements in the refinement and technological levels .
Driving attributes have been enhanced to make acceleration ,  turning ,  and braking completely natural .
Judges were impressed and there was immense praise for the stylish and comfortable vehicle .
Accessibility controls ,  space for passengers ,  luggage ,  the design in and out were on point .
The judges were impressed with the interior comprised of the real quality act .
Equipment ,  as well as the technological levels ,  were quite good .
It had safety features .
It was a well-balanced and outstanding family car that was simple to drive .
The car had value for money as people would get much out of the car .
The competition's voting management leader was Renuka Kirpalani
The best structure will adopt based on international market variations and car availability .
Judges nominate their bests ten cars from the list .
The votes are analyzed by an international accounting firm Grant Thorton .
Finalists for the supreme award included Audi e-Tron ,  BMW three series ,  Citroen Cfive Aircross .
Two Thousand nineteen category winners include KIA ,  Mazda ,  KIA Soul EV BMW eight series .
The value of pluralism involves recognizing that different cultures see nature in different ways .
Two thousand nineteen had wild bush fires which destroyed homes and displaced people .
Wild bush fires in Brazil have made people realize the importance of nature .
A sustainable future can only be realized if people understand the value of pluralism .
The assessment report was not in favor of the boss .
There have to be the best uses of natural resources .
The world's leading scientists met in Vitoria-Gasteiz ,  Basque country in two thousand twelve .
The values assessment will provide findings on how diverse communities value nature differently .
The burning tropical forests accounted for the disproportionate share of the world's diversity .
People should protect and conserve natural treasures for their own sake .
Economic forces predominate whereby there are shifts to economic opportunities .
Politicians and commercial agents see forests as obstacles to agriculture and mining .
Politicians make political decisions regarding forests without accounting for what the forests provide .
Forests regulate the climate ,  trap greenhouse gases and mitigate the effects of global warming .
Forests act as global water pumps that deliver rain to distant regions .
Most policy decisions ignore the contribution of natural resources to people .
Policy decisions neglect the needs of people who depend on forests for livelihoods and welfare .
People value nature because of its contribution to society worldwide .
Sometimes nature is a source of conflict to society .
Politics affects people's access to different resources and how nature is conserved .
Policymakers encourage large-scale agriculture to meet global demands in the market .
Large plantations encroach on people's homes and are habitants to dangerous animals like primates .
People have different perceptions regarding nature and it's not obvious to some people .
Politicians should focus more on human values when making decisions about natural systems .
Forest fires have undermined the people depending on them in recent times .
Governments have a broader perspective on how to preserve and conserve nature .
Values assessment is a basis for decision-making towards nature .
Patricia Balvanera is a professor at the institute for ecosystem and sustainability research .
Unai Pascual is a professor at the Basque center for climate change in Spain .
Mike Christie is a director of research .
Brigitte Baptiste is a chancellor at the Universidad Ean in Bogota
Am a lieutenant and have never been a general .
The inspector general of government is called Irene Mulyagonja .
The Uganda revenue authority commissioner general is called Doris Akol .
President Yoweri Museveni led the anti-corruption walk in Kampala .
The walk brought together different government agencies ,  religious ,  traditional ,  citizens ,  and civil society leaders .
Vice president Edward Kiwanuka Sekandi attended the tenth graduation ceremony of Saint Lawrence University .
Katumba attained a cumulative grade point average of four point nine two .
Emmanuel Kato is the vice-chairman coordinator of the Uganda national allied workers union .
Simon Kinobe is the president of the Uganda Law society .
Kinobe stressed that most people will be left out of the registration process .
The exercise began on November twenty-first with limited time allocated to it .
The electoral commission chairman Justice Simon Byabakama asserted that there were sixteen million voters .
People go to nearby parishes if they want to change the polling station .
Byabakama appears on radios to explain electoral decisions .
The chairman asserted that the law does not allow electronic registration .
Political analysts have criticized the illegal presence of the electoral commission secretary Sam Rwakoojo .
The cabinet approved the construction of the hydropower station on Murchison falls .
Conservationists and citizens are against the establishment of the hydropower project .
The minister of state for tourism is called Godfrey Kiwanda .
The ministry expects to carry out an environmental impact assessment .
Ugandans started an online petition to save Murchison falls .
She came out after a divisive election in February two thousand sixteen .
Ambassador Deborah Malac advocated for the release of the opposition leader Doctor Kizza Besigye .
Malac criticized the injustices involved in the elections .
She criticized voter intimidation ,  the arrest of opposition politicians ,  and the violence involved .
The company agreed to compensate the people .
The product consists of small capsules .
The pill has to be inserted for the planned intercourse to fake virginity .
The dissolution poses no health dangers to the user .
The relatives of the groom inspect the bed sheets after the wedding night .
The bride has to endure a series of trials .
The German company virginal care sells artificial hymens .
The bride turned up the venue in the most unconventional way .
Twitter user Postsubman posted a video when the couple took a usual entry .
Others pointed it out as death do us apart .
People can buy virginity pills to fake on the wedding night .
Hydraulic pilings stabilize it in rough waters .
It has forty-five bathrooms and a swimming platform .
Zimbabwe understates aid by agencies .
The jury voted to base on the criteria women use when purchasing a car .
Mazda has made fundamental attributes to make the acceleration ,  turning and braking completely natural .
The voting system was the most egalitarian in its nine-year history .
Kirpalani explained that they agreed to a very fair voting formula .
Others include Ford Kuga ,  Hyundai Sonata ,  KIA Xceed ,  Lexus UX ,  Porsche Nine hundred eleven .
Others include Porche nine hundred eleven and Mazda three .
Cultural diversity and universality help in sustainability .
Different communities conserve nature in different ways because of the different values attached to nature .
The European green capital is where scientists focused on the diverse values of nature .
The assessment also looks at how the natural systems benefit us .
Natural treasures have an immense contribution to people's lives .
Some of the economic opportunities include timber ,  pharmaceutical companies ,  eco-tourism ,  and mining .
Policymakers support lower-income farmers who rely on crops for their livelihoods .
Primates include gorillas ,  orangutans ,  and howler monkeys .
The values assessment helps people understand the art of natural interactions .
The institute is found at the national autonomous university of Mexico .
He is an associate senior research scientist at the center for development and environment .
The research is carried out at Aberystwyth university's business school in the United Kingdom .
Let us leave the issues of the generals to the generals .
She explained that the church should be blamed under the anti-money laundering law .
It's within the law to destroy goods that have been levied and don't enter the market
This took place on December fourth .
The walk took place to intensify the fight against corruption .
He handed over the plaque to Saint Lawrence university's best student Charles Katumba .
He addressed the media in a move to enhance the salaries of all public servants .
The lawyers body planned to sue the Uganda electoral commission .
The registration exercise ends on December eleventh after twenty-one days .
The chairman expected the number to increase before the deadline day .
The local council one chairperson confirms that you reside in that specific area .
These include severe gambling ,  addiction ,  and money laundering
Some of these concerns are also experienced in other parts of the world
Some youths are now suffering from internet addiction .
Heightened levels of social anxiety and loneliness in the population are a result of addictions .
President Yoweri Museveni ordered that no new licenses can be issued to sports betting companies
Museveni also said that permits issued to existing firms will not be renewed when they expire
The sports betting industry's growth has led to addiction among the youth
Museveni's action of banning sports betting in Uganda was praised .
Uganda is in good company .
Several countries around the world have banned gambling .
In sub-Saharan Africa ,  several countries have been grappling with similar regulatory challenges .
Kenya is the third-largest gambling market in Africa after Nigeria .
The tax was subsequently reduced to fifteen percent .
All Muslim majority countries ban gambling on religious grounds .
The United Arab Emirates ,  Kuwait ,  and Jordan have an official ban except in casinos .
Gambling prohibitions are driven by concerns about money laundering and gambling addiction .
Sports betting is the focus of illegal activities such as match-fixing .
Online gambling is banned in Singapore and Cambodia .
In Singapore ,  all forms of online betting are illegal unless exemptions are granted .
Albania passed a similar law to Uganda in October two thousand eighteen .
Italy is considered to have one of the worst gambling problems in the world
Italy accounts for twenty-five percent of the world's gamblers
A sizeable percentage of Italians are classified as gambling addicts
Smartphone penetration around the continent has exhibited a remarkable growth rate .
Cameroon had seventy-two percent registered users of social networks .
Matches are often screened in small viewing centers .
The most popular social networks for that community was Facebook ,  Instagram ,  and Twitter .
There is growing interest in sports betting among African youth .
Mobile phones are the preferred avenue for sports betting .
The increasing availability of smartphones is unleashing the innovative potential of sub-Saharan African youth .
Social media platforms have the potential to change lives around the continent
Many social media adaptions are the result of the inventiveness of sub-Saharan youth
The digital satellite television space across the continent broadcasts sports events of African clubs
Digital Satellite Television has brought foreign league matches to viewing centers
Viewing centers are in corners of urban centers
Football fans can keep up with the performance of their teams without ever visiting the club homes
A third driver is the youth bulge in Africa
The continent has the youngest population in the world
Most of the African youth are unemployed
The impressive advertising of sports betting firms provides an irresistible proposition
Experts say bickering among government officials could scare away prospective investors
Uganda Telecom needs two hundred fifty-five billion shillings to upgrade its network
This would guarantee fast and efficient service delivery to its customers
Twebaze Bemanya saw his contract expire on November twenty-second
He has been part of the government leadership seeking investors investment in Uganda Telecom
Relevant government officials had not appointed a new administrator by November twenty-fifth
Top government officials remained divided on whether or not to appoint a new administrator
Museveni had earlier asked Kahinda Otafiire to search for a new administrator
Industry experts say the continued fight at the company was not good for business
Can a new administrator succeed where Bemanya has failed ?
Kabiito Karamagi said Uganda Telecom will collapse if the government decides not to support it
Karamagi said it is also surprising that the creditors are silent
Ronald Sebuhinja said government officials must try to resurrect the company
Changing the administrator does not change the factors that led the company into provisional administration
Can Bemanya's removal save or ruin the company ?
The long period taken by the administrator to turn around the company's fortunes mean he has failed
A new administrator may do a good job but we don't know what constraints Bemanya faced
Government should use tax payer's money or raise capital to turn around the telecom firm
There is no guarantee that Uganda Telecom will attract enough customers to keep the business running
Sebuhinja said the government can get an investor who can try their luck in the company
Aeko Ongodia said government officials should avoid fighting over Uganda Telecom management publicly
He said there is a need for the firm to identify the actual customer needs
You are very likely to struggle because of the high input cost of infrastructure
The first and second position in terms of telecom's market share is nearly cemented
If the government thinks that the company is good for communication ,  it should invest in it .
The strategic reasons for the telecom firm need to be checked with a commercial sensibility
The market had about twenty-three million subscribers according to Uganda Communications Commission data
The fights at Uganda Telecom have been on and off for some time
Bemanya was accused of blocking Anite and Kasaija from accessing the company's financial records
Bemanya had also blocked Anite's side from conducting an audit into the company's affairs
William Byaruhanga Bemanya argued that there cannot be an audit when provisional administration
The ministry of finance has no control over the company in its current status
The insolvency act states only listed creditors can apply to the court to remove the administrator
Museveni was in the know about these fights
He said in a letter that Bemanya be replaced with another administrator
The Administrator of Uganda telecom's contract is expiring but you want to renew his contract
Hon .  Anite is one of our most active Baijukuru ,  Museveni's letter reads in part .
In the interest of cohesion get another Administrator .
It is easier that way .
Going on with endless tension is not good management .
Kasaija told The Independent that the process to appoint the new administrator had started .
When the time comes we will let you know .
Uganda Telecom's troubles started in two thousand seven with big debts .
It started making losses emanating from inadequate investment and competition .
The situation worsened when the United Nations imposed sanctions on the Libyan assets .
In two thousand seventeen ,  the Libyan government through a private company ,  Ucom controlled management .
Ucom was owned by the Libyan Post ,  Telecommunication and Information Technology Holding Company .
The government of Uganda owned thirty-one percent shares .
Ucom resumed control of the company two years later following the lifting of international sanctions against Libya .
This triggered the Libyan authorities to bow out of the Uganda Telecom business .
The company was then placed under provisional administration in May two thousand seventeen .
It remains unclear when this provisional administration will end .
Kenya introduced a thirty-five percent profit tax on gambling operators in the early two thousand eighteen .
Exemptions on online betting are rarely issued in Singapore and they come with high minimum requirements .
Italy accounts for only 2% of the global population .
The majority of African youth have insecure jobs .
Why can't the government declare the company insolvent ?
Any other firm trying to penetrate the telecom market will have to struggle .
Anite' s side argued the government has all the possible means and power to remove Bemanya .
The majority of African youth are in casual employment .
If the government decides not to support Uganda Telecom Limited ,  it will collapse .
A two hundred hectare experimental park started in nineteen seventy-one .
Rene Haller ,  a Swiss agronomist to rehabilitate the firm's degraded environment
Bamburi Cement's operation is located ten kilometers from Mombasa .
The cement firm's initiative seems to have succeeded with setting up the Park .
Bamburi cement holds a license that allows them to extract raw material only on land .
Natural forests are part of the environmental arm .
In total ,  the rehabilitated land is three hundred twenty hectares in Mombasa .
The firm is also in preparation to rehabilitate the land in Katani ,  Machako county .
The rehabilitation involved landscaping ,  research ,  and communities neighboring the firm's subsidiary in Uganda .
Business establishment of pioneer plantations of trees followed by planting of target coastal vegetation .
Numerous animal species were introduced to support ecological functions with support from Kenya wildlife .
Other creatures emerged naturally as a result of the cement firm's support ,  according to Albert Musando .
He cities butterflies that emerged as a result of creating an enabling environment .
Doing so means insects like butterflies can feed on flowers or nectar .
We spent our time on it to ensure that we help the ecosystem recover .
Musando said the cement firm ensures that in landscaping the environment is suitable .
In the water ecosystem ,  we create an aquatic habitat that has all sorts of connections .
The lizard would be in the water to eat fish .
The fish take care of reducing the population of mosquitoes by consuming the larvae .
Without the fish ,  mosquitos will be all over this place .
African government spent an estimate of two point two percent of the global military .
Kagame officiated a swearing-in ceremony of senior military officials at parliament in Kigali .
The Allied Democratic Forces were to fight the Kampala government President Yoweri Museveni .
Russia supplies thirty-nine percent of Africa's imported arms .
Direct travels between Rwanda and Burundi ceased .
There are cordial ties among the Rwandan Tutsi and Uganda Hima ethnic groups .
To survive ,  Rwanda must strike first .
Rwanda's army always seems to be very alert .
A new East African Corporation president was elected .
The East African Community made twenty years .
The head of the state summit was suggested .
The summit had taken place in Arusha to mark the East African Community's milestone .
The summit was postponed to early next year as an interval of relief to the tension .
Rwanda ,  the chair of the East African Community has postponed the summit .
Rwanda's minister of state wrote a letter to the bloc's secretary-general .
Uganda's minister of state informed the independent ,  that the country in question was Tanzania .
There is a fraught diplomatic relationship between Rwanda and Uganda .
The council of ministers is sitting .
The resolutions made will be passed onto the summit .
The Democratic Republic of Congo has applied to join the East African Community .
The celebration of twenty years is marked on the calendar .
It is anticipated if the summit had taken place ,  there would be a bigger pronouncement .
Tanzania said they had a lot to deal with at that moment .
The commemoration of the East African Community's twenty years is a public program .
He was the deputy prime minister in charge of East African Affairs .
He was known for his Cancellation of the Heads of States summit .
Other scheduled events went as planned .
The East African Community was a hive of activity two weeks before the summit .
The cancellation of the heads of state summit reflects the bloc's state of affairs .
They had hoped to publicly build harmony at the occasion .
The meeting was postponed by Rwanda .
Uganda was requested to postpone the meeting to a more convenient date .
The meeting was to follow up on an earlier meeting in Kigali .
These meetings are meant to iron out the issues from the signed pact .
Uganda was adjusting to the developments .
The cost to anyone who destabilized our country is going to be raised .
The leader said the cost would be very high .
He presided over the swearing-in ceremony for the Rwandan government leaders .
Kagame's remarks were a broad sweep .
Some commentators said Kagame was partly targeting Victoire Ingabire .
Others said he aimed at either Burundi or Uganda .
Rwanda accuses Uganda and Burundi of harboring armed rebel militias .
Uganda has arrested Rwandans in the country .
According to analysts ,  Kagame's tone was a harbinger of doom for the upcoming summit .
Henry Okello Oryem is Uganda's minister of state for international affairs .
We are very patient .
We are persistent in our position .
He said that we had nothing wrong .
We will stick with what was agreed on in Angola .
Uganda is willing to do what it takes to end this unfortunate situation .
Oryem says Uganda is willing to give talks another chance irrespective of changes in dates .
It is a cheaper choice .
Oryem said the East African Community is on track .
He added that Uganda was determined to keep Rwanda on the negotiating table .
The year has generally been tenuous for the East African Community .
There was no robust institutional framework in the East African Community .
This allows small misunderstandings to snowball into a much bigger crisis .
Uganda's Ministry of Foreign Affairs delivered a diplomatic protest .
There are over ten allegations of smuggling .
Uganda protests the murder of its nationals .
Rwanda claims that the two suspected smugglers turned violent .
It has been a back and forth since Rwanda closed its border with Uganda .
South Sudan failed to form a transitional government of national unity .
South Sudan is faced with an ever-looming threat of war breaking out .
The community cannot afford to have another war in the young country .
The East African Community was originally formed by Uganda ,  Kenya ,  and Tanzania .
There were disagreements between Uganda and Tanzania .
The East African Community collapsed .
A treaty was signed in November .
Both Burundi and Rwanda joined in two thousand seven
The East African Community has made progressive steps since then .
The protocol for the establishment of a common market was signed .
A protocol for the establishment of the East Africa Monetary Union was signed .
Uganda's Ministry of Foreign Affairs delivered a diplomatic protest in November .
The Confederation of African Football has canceled its media and marketing rights agreement .
The impact has mostly been felt in Africa .
Millions of fans were dismayed as of the first round of the qualifying games .
The Africa tournament was held in Egypt .
The Africa Cup of Nations is watched around the world .
Equatorial Guinea and Gabon co-hosted the tournament .
The cup is so popular .
They signed a twelve-year agreement .
The commercial value of the African game was upped by the agreement .
It almost ran into problems .
The contract was anti-competitive according to the Egyptian Competition Authority .
The matter was then taken on by the Economic Court .
Egypt's Economic Courts are often staffed by three judges .
The Confederation of African Football did not open the rights to competitive bidding .
The deal with Lagardre was deemed unlawful
Senegalese soccer fans watch the Africa Cup of Nations final .
The Confederation for African Football was hurt by the cancellation of the agreement .
The federation had no choice but to cancel the deal
Primary broadcasters of the matches lost their rights when the agreement was canceled .
beIN Sports is a global network of sports channels .
This latest blow to the development of African football audiences cannot be understood .
The Confederation for African Football was founded long ago .
It organizes continent-wide football .
The confederation was controversial .
The confederation recently made headlines .
The Confederation for African Football was under the presidency of Issa Hayatou .
He asked why the Confederation for African Football was now singing a different tune .
Ahmad defeated Hayatou in an election
Ahmad was against the deal .
The deal was criticized .
The army does not make any errors .
The handover will take place in February .
This was reported in November .
The summit would be scheduled for the six East African countries .
There is a growing rift between Uganda and Rwanda and Burundi and Rwanda
Tension has built up between the two countries in the last few months .
Tanzania requested the postponement of the summit .
He did not reveal which head of state asked for the summit to be deferred .
The council of ministers will deliberate on this fraught diplomatic relationship .
Angola and the Democratic Republic of Congo are involved in conflict resolution .
The agenda included issues in the community .
They requested a later date .
It has been witnessed through several events .
He was still in office at the time of his death .
This was the anti-climax of the bloc's twentieth anniversary .
The independent visited the East African Community .
The meeting was aimed at resolving the stand-off with Uganda .
They had other assignments .
The pact was signed by the two nations .
A video of Rwanda's president in a foul mood emerged .
The remarks sparked varied interpretations .
Victoire Ingabire is an opposition figure in Rwanda .
This is because of the worsening relationship Between them and Kigali .
The armed rebel militias had an anti-Rwanda mission .
The Rwandese in Uganda have been accused of being security threats .
The summit was for the East African Community .
He said Uganda remains very patient amidst everything .
We are willing to follow the agreement until further notice .
Other choices can have a long-term impact .
Oryem indicated that accommodation is better and we are not resentful .
This was meant to maintain an atmosphere that is not toxic and allows progress .
This has left it at the mercy of the political mood swings of individual leaders .
The East African newspaper advocated for deeper integrations to heal the fissures within .
It protested the murder of its two citizens .
Uganda's nationals were murdered by Rwanda's security personnel .
They assaulted police officers before being shot .
Rwanda closed its border with Uganda in February .
This has been an indictment on the East African Community and its framework .
South Sudan ,  therefore ,  remains in a delicate position .
Efforts at mediation have yielded another extension to form a unity government .
Uganda was under Idi Amin while Tanzania was under Julius Nyerere .
It jointly owned institutions like the East African Railways and Harbors headquartered in Dar es Salaam .
South Sudan later joined as well .
It signed protocols for establishing the Customs Union .
It was signed to create a single market across the partner states .
It aimed at creating financial ability across the board .
It protested the murder of Job Ebyarishanga and Bosco Tuhirwe .
The governing body for soccer in Africa is the Confederation of African Football .
The impact has been felt across the world .
The fans learned that the games were blacked out on radio stations .
The Africa Cup of Nations is widely watched around the continent .
The tournament had six billion viewers .
The tournament was covered in thirteen languages on television .
The agreement was between Lagardre and the Confederation of African Football .
The rights were reported to cost about one billion .
This is because it wasn't based on an open bidding process .
The Economic court is in Cairo .
The judges are considered specialists in the case .
The Confederation for African Football officials were fined .
The Africa Cup of Nations final on television in a street in Dakar .
It was a marketing and rights agreement .
The broadcasters included SuperSport ,  the South Africa-based Pan-Africa television group .
It has sub-rights to transmit the games in the Americas and the Middle East .
It is better to consider the issues from the viewpoints of the key parties .
The players of the Confederation for African Football said so .
Its headquarters are in Cairo .
The confederation hired a high-ranking official .
It strongly argued that the Lagardre contract was not violating Egypt's laws .
The federation has a controversial leader .
It was a long-term commitment .
It would be the saving grace for a bloc that generally had a bad year politically .
The summit is most likely to be overshadowed by this growing rift between the countries .
This created unnecessary speculation and mistrust .
An industrialists and manufacturers' conference was underway .
He contested against Kagame and remains critical to him .
The Rwandese in Uganda have been accused of having firearms in their possession .
They were not surprised by the cancellation of the summit .
The postponement of the meeting might create a sense of exhaustion on Uganda's part .
Job Ebyarishanga and Bosco Tuhirwe were shot by Rwandan security in November .
They were murdered for allegedly smuggling goods across the border .
We hope the unity government will be formed by the end of February .
These led to the collapse of the East African Community .
Citizens enjoyed the services of the East African Posts and Telecommunications in Kampala .
It was meant to deepen the integration process through liberalization and promotion of trade .
This was done by introducing the free movement of goods ,  persons ,  capital ,  services ,  and capital
The East African community aimed at having a single currency .
The agreement was hailed by many as significant when it was signed .
The cost was for a year .
They are also designed to rule quickly on commercial cases .
These rights had been bought from Lagardre .
It is the only one that has been able to continue to broadcast games .
Its operations management was taken over by the International Federation of Football Associations
Ahmad Ahmad is the new leader .
The commitment was twelve years long .
We should eliminate inefficiencies in the tax collection .
Technology provides employment to the people
African football is getting wide coverage .
The Confederation of African football will get new bidders .
Lagardere cannot afford to lose the deal .
Lagardere lost its contract with the Asian football confederation .
The Confederation of African football has terminated its contract with Lagardere .
The Egyptian competition authority role is contested .
Lagardere will not lose the contract easily .
The confederation of African football should follow the legal guidelines .
New policies should be established .
The contract refers to Swiss laws .
The Egyptian authority made the ruling under the Egyptian laws .
The confederation of African football obeys Egyptian laws .
Confederation of African football in Lagardere will limit the damage from contract termination .
Confederation of African football has denied its decision being unilateral .
Confederation of African football and Lagardere want to solve the dispute in two ways .
The dispute can be decided under Swiss legal procedures and guidelines .
Egypt may want to impart its jurisdiction on the Swiss courts .
Lagardere should seek compensation .
Egyptian competition authority requires the Confederation of African football to make compensation .
Legal changes have to take effect .
Confederation of African Football may review its relationship with its Egyptian host .
Lagardere may exit from sports media and marketing .
The process will take some good time .
Fans will have no access to watch matches .
African governments need to invest in strong disease surveillance systems .
The best vaccine for Covid-19 is coming soon .
Strong surveillance ensures a functioning health information system .
The World Health Organization's Regional director is called Matshidiso Moeti .
The health conference theme was "Reaching the Last Mile forum" .
Strong surveillance systems empower health workers .
Governments should invest in strong surveillance systems .
Vaccine-preventable disease surveillance was introduced in the African region .
The vaccine-preventable disease surveillance simplifies the immunization process .
Moeti explained that the African governments will achieve broader goals in the health system .
Regula medical testing is health security .
Uganda completed the first-ever Covid-19 patient in late February .
Vaccine-preventable diseases are twenty-three which affect people in Uganda .
Pneumonia ,  diarrhea ,  and measles affect mainly children
The Decade vaccine economics made research regarding the vaccine-preventable diseases .
Many children die of vaccine-preventable diseases .
Charles Olaro is the director of clinical and community services at the ministry of health .
People need twenty dollars to acquire treatment for either pneumonia ,  diarrhea ,  or measles .
The study focused on direct medical costs and out-of-pocket expenses .
Hospital care costs are very high .
African heads of state endorsed the Addis declaration on immunization .
Countries agreed to carry out mass immunization campaigns .
Abu Dhabi encouraged increased investment in vaccine-preventable diseases .
An investment of four billion dollars will be made over a decade .
There is immense progress in vaccine coverage around the globe .
The aim is to save people from diseases .
Vaccine-preventable surveillance systems help health authorities identify areas with weak immunization coverage .
Four hundred seventy million dollars is required to boost the surveillance system in ten years .
The World Health Organization predicts that the investment will save more than seven hundred thousand lives .
A Private sector firm pledged five million dollars towards the World Health Organization .
Doctor Rebecca Martin is the director of the center for global health .
Doctor Richard Mihigo is the program manager for immunization and vaccine development in Africa .
Governments have a crucial role to play in improving immunization .
Vaccine-preventable diseases are very many .
Some diseases have no cure .
The regime of Omar Al-Bashir was ousted after his thirty years of leadership .
The youth and women led the peaceful demonstrations .
The military and the Sudanese civil society signed the constitutional declaration .
Power-sharing paved the way for a transitional government that will serve for three years .
Sudan got its first female chief justice .
The Sudanese prime minister had previously worked for international organizations .
The agreement between the civilian and military leaders ensured that peace prevailed in Sudan .
The new government looks at reviving the economy .
There is rampant destitution ,  corruption ,  war ,  and internal division .
Sudanese income per capita declined by half according to the international monetary fund .
The international monetary fund expects the economy to contract by two point six percent this year .
Sudan is above twenty percent unemployment rate .
The Sudanese government should find lasting solutions to the people's challenges .
Sudan has made losses in the oil earnings since two thousand eleven .
Sudan should engage in industrialization and agricultural mechanization .
The Sudanese government should promote democratic ideals and peace .
The government should lead the path towards development .
Poland laid a democratic foundation after the collapse of the communist regime .
Ethnic strife leads to years of violence ,  instability ,  and economic collapse .
The Sudanese people should be shown solidarity after several years of despotic rule .
The global attention for faraway countries is short .
The global focus is on trade and finance .
The world should give attention to the impoverished country of forty-three million people .
Sudan will create stability in the Horn of Africa and the middle east .
The destabilization of Sudan will create instabilities in other countries .
Sudan needs international assistance .
Sudan needs the United States of America to remove trade and financial barriers .
The United States should remove Sudan from the state sponsors of terrorism list .
The Sudanese government looks at improving education ,  health ,  and infrastructure .
The government should increase its tax base .
Sudan needs debt relief to access new funding from the World bank .
Most of the lower-income countries were heavily indebted in the nineteen nineties .
Sudan was excluded from the heavily indebted poor country program .
Global media is interested in African football .
Confederation of African football may get more money out of Lagardere .
The Confederation of African football hopes to settle disputes with Lagardere at a lower cost .
Confederation of African football should reopen bidding for the rights .
New broadcasters will obtain rights to broadcast the beautiful game of Africa .
The confederation of African football will lose some revenue .
Chuka Onwumwechili is a professor of communications at Howard University .
The health surveillance systems ensure early detection ,  response to risks of outbreaks .
Vaccine-preventable disease surveillance responds to early outbreaks .
World health organization organized a conference for over three hundred leaders around the world .
Countries should invest in vaccine-preventable disease surveillance to improve their health systems .
The vaccine-preventable disease surveillance saves lives .
Sustainable development goals include an improved health system .
Three of the vaccine-preventable diseases include pneumonia ,  diarrhea ,  and measles .
People spend huge sums of money to control pneumonia ,  diarrhea ,  and measles .
The health research was submitted to the policymakers .
People should go for vaccination programs .
People need four dollars to acquire treatment in a private not for profit facility .
The health study also focused on productivity losses based on observed practice .
An African Union summit took place in Addis Ababa in January two thousand seventeen .
Nine hundred thousand lives will be saved .
One and half million people died of vaccine-related diseases in two decades .
The World Health organization wants to mobilize international resources to create strong disease surveillance .
The center for global health looks at ensuring health security by strengthening health systems .
Doctor Richard explained that the biggest challenge is that African countries lack income .
Influenza ,  cholera ,  hepatitis A ,  plague ,  rabies ,  yellow fever ,  meningococcal disease ,  typhoid ,  tuberculosis are other diseases .
There were peaceful protests in Sudan in December two thousand nineteen .
Two women were included on the Sudan sovereign council .
The new government will resolve internal conflicts .
The Gross Domestic Products per capita decreased since two thousand thirteen in Sudan .
The inflation will exceed fifty percent this year .
Sudanese gross government debt is over two hundred percent of the Gross Domestic Product .
The loss came after the independence of South Sudan .
Economic growth and new economic policies were laid thirty years ago .
Other areas of focus include rising tensions among big powers and elections in countries .
The assistance can either ensure the success of new government reforms or fail them .
The Sudanese government needs to address some of the pressing needs .
The economic revival plan is based on the United Nations development goals .
The government should pay its foreign debt .
This was because of the previous president Omar Hassan al-Bashir .
The surveillance systems avoid unnecessary deaths .
Vaccine-preventable disease surveillance mitigates national security ,  local economy ,  and public health systems .
The conference took place in Abu Dhabi in November .
African countries have challenges in the strategic planning and operation of their surveillance systems .
Heads of state agreed that everyone in Africa was entitled to immunization .
Doctor Seth explained that people are still dying of vaccine-preventable diseases .
Twenty-one billion dollars will be saved in a decade
The health systems will avoid epidemics ,  detect threats and respond rapidly to outbreaks .
Sudan got its first female foreign minister .
The new government looks at resettling the displaced people .
The current government is appealing to the International Monetary Fund .
Sudan needs debt relief .
Sudan faces serious challenges .
The Sudanese are hopeful people .
A popularly backed government can restore stability .
Sudanese youth and women are free from oppression .
They request for a better future .
Destiny must answer their call .
The Minister of Finance and Economic planning of Sudan is Ibrahim Elbadawi .
Jeffrey D .  Sachs is University Professor at Columbia University .
The appeal will evolve towards peace and democracy .
Voters and supporters are two different categories of people .
Mbarora Burora Ninseka who ran for a local council elective position in Buganda
The candidate has three wives and five children .
The breadwinner has a supportive family .
Mbarara was escorted by his spouses and children to campaign meetings .
The children mobilized crowds to cheer their father .
Mbarora lost the election to his competitor .
The story is mainly about how he lost the election .
Mbarora's entire family did not have a registered voter .
Political campaign rallies gather crowds only to end with dismal voter turnout .
Most people who cheer at political meetings are only supporters and not voters .
The politics counting frame begins with getting on the voters' register .
The National Identification and Registration Authority registered sixteen million and four hundred voters .
The Electoral Commission is updating the National Voters' Register at each update station in every parish .
Citizens aged eighteen and above can register to vote .
Registered voters can confirm registration at their voting locations .
Special interest groups will have their registration updated .
People who intend to vote should already be on the voting register .
The national Identification card does not guarantee voter registration .
There is no provision for online voter registration .
Voters should physically visit updated stations in their parish .
Visiting the update stations is a way to confirm voter registration .
Individuals should upgrade personal status from supporter to voter .
Country shareholders have the chance to activate their shareholding rights .
Real citizens should participate as a way to refuse being silenced .
Everything rises and falls on the numbers with politics .
Brilliant ideas are backed by voters and not just supporters .
Voters should secure their ability to vote
The paint coat is peeling off .
Shoddy work is a symptom of poor supervision .
The contract had provisions to cover the defects liability period .
The bus terminal is one of many such projects in Uganda funded by the World Bank's International Development Agency
The Ministry of Lands ,  Housing ,  and Urban Development implemented this project to support infrastructure development .
The program was designed to enhance institutional performance to improve urban service delivery .
The project was rocked by challenges that included cost and time overruns .
District and municipal officials were forced to resign in the public interest .
District leaders were locked in bitter public spectacles over project management .
Mbale roads were unusable because of soil heaps dumped by the contractor .
Projects were executed because of the keen interest of the municipal leadership .
The project aimed to improve urban planning .
Moroto Bus Terminal has been shunned by the bus operators
Ayub Mukisa works with the Karamoja anti-corruption coalition .
Kenyan police officers brutalized a student during a recent protest .
Police officers from different stations descended on protesting learners .
The police officers gave stabbers and muggers a run for their money .
The public outcry was a result of the images of police action .
The involved police officers were put under investigation .
Police officers were charged with the murder of a lawyer and his client .
The woman was hit with a baton during a protest over fees at the University of Nairobi .
Decades of policy reforms have not yielded a change in Kenya .
Graphic details of the murder emerged during the trial .
News reports about police officers surface as a public scandal .
Police abuse in Kenya has shown a significant increase over the years .
Police abuse has become worse in Nairobi .
An increase in police harassment has been documented .
Police officers habitually raid houses and execute random arrests .
Police misconduct in Kenya is not exceptional .
Police misconduct is structural and a part of everyday policing .
Police misconduct realization is far from recent .
There are ongoing efforts to transform the Kenyan police .
The researcher interviewed police officers stationed in various parts of Nairobi .
Police misconduct had become part of everyday police work .
Research shows that the problem lies with police cultures .
In some police forces ,  certain attitudes condone various forms of misconduct .
There is a sense of impunity in certain cultures .
Some police officers saw misconduct as part of their work .
Other officers feared to speak out against their colleagues .
New structures and laws have been introduced as a measure for police misconduct .
The objective is to create a democratic and accountable police service that is not politicized .
Police reform was a crucial part of a program under President Mwai Kibaki .
Initiatives were designed to transform the security and justice sector .
The state police have been viewed as an instrument for control .
A task force on reform was founded by the state police .
It was an encompassing and ambitious reform program .
The reform program did not lead to substantial changes .
Police were deeply implicated after the presidential elections .
A large number of people died as a result of police actions .
Concrete legislative changes followed after the death of people .
The National Police Service Act was first published in the year two thousand eleven .
Transforming the police force into police service resulted in a wide range of changes .
Changes were centered towards collaboration and better service .
The internal affairs unit was set up under the National Police Service set .
The internal unit handles police misconduct internally .
The unit will receive and investigate complaints against police officers .
Antonio Guterres is the Sustainable Development Goals Advocate for the United Nations Secretary-General .
The Independent Policing Oversight Authority was established .
The authority is required to investigate police misconduct .
There are two oversight bodies .
Added to these were a range of other initiatives .
There are social justice groups ,  along with several other human rights organizations .
Despite all these efforts ,  police brutality continues .
The answer lies with the police themselves as my research found .
Speaking out can lead to isolation and exclusion .
It can also result in the denial of promotions or outright punishment .
Another factor ,  solidarity seems to have been in play too .
The Independent Policing Oversight Authority survey also reported .
The answer to ending police brutality therefore largely lies with the police themselves .
Officers need to realize that police violence is outright bad policing .
To achieve this ,  a change in mindset needs to happen .
This needs external support ,  from donors and civil society ,  for example .
And it can be guided by additional monitoring .
Yet the change essentially needs to be driven from within .
Police officers need to begin to see police misconduct as detrimental ,  rather than beneficial .
It can be promoted by revamped training curricula .
Tessa Diphoorn is Assistant Professor ,  Utrecht University .
He later said that more people are being able to share their perspectives .
The speech anointed Facebook as the "Fifth Estate" .
The platform Zuckerberg created does more than give people a voice ,  bringing them together .
It is economically incentivized to drive people apart .
In the process ,  it shatters an underpinning of democracy .
From broadcasting to target casting .
Maximizing revenue from advertising meant offending as few readers as possible .
The targeting capability of social media algorithms .
Now profit comes not through the broad delivery of common information .
The result is an attack on the model of shared information .
Radio and television are broadcasting from a single source .
Broadcasting changed the nature of communications .
The image of a family huddling around the radio Facebook Chairperson .
Can the two coexist given that shared not targeted is necessary ?
Cable television is narrowcasting .
To differentiate themselves on this newsstand ,  cable news channels developed an attitude .
Narrowcasting was driven by conflict and disagreement .
Social media is target casting .
They then sell advertisers the ability to reach those groups .
Target Casting companies make money the opposite way .
Instead of selling ,  reach out to a wider audience .
An even greater differentiator between traditional media and social media
Such a secret targeting tears at the fabric of democracy .
They began the constitution with the collective "We the people" .
To become "We" requires a suspension of human nature's tribal instincts .
Such a belief is predicated in part on shared information .
Coming together in an environment of shared information .
When algorithms of social media follow the money ,  they undermine the communal "We" .
They gnaw away at the heart of "We the people" balance and transparency .
Congress acted to assure conflicting ideas had access to the airwaves .
Following World War two's example of radio being used to manipulate the German population .
Assuring the widest possible dissemination of political viewpoints .
Cable television came along expanding rapidly in the seventies and eighties .
What's more ,  because cable channels did not use the public's airwaves .
The ability to change the channel to discover a different point of view .
The algorithms of social media do not provide such an open opportunity .
There is no channel dial to turn for another opinion .
This is because of the network effects enjoyed by social media .
Once locked into this network ,  the algorithms then do their target casting in secret .
The Federal Communication Commission requires that all broadcast advertising declare who is paying it .
We can choose among print publications as well as broadcast for different editorial positions .
The editorial position of traditional media is openly obvious simply by reading or watching .
Such secrecy and closed control of information options inherently work at cross purposes .
A lie can get halfway around the world before the truth gets its boots on .
Targeted data circles the world at lightning speed .
What do we do now ?
The result was a surge in right-wing talk radio .
Today ,  Democratic Federal Communications Commission nominees go through the confirmation process .
Currently ,  however ,  Republicans also seem focused on the allegations .
President Trump has even threatened to instruct the Federal Communications Commission .
First Amendment protections against government interference ,  of course ,  are predominant in any situation .
The broadcast rule was held by the supreme court .
But that does not mean other alternatives aren't available .
Disclosing who pays for the message is one alternative .
Senators have proposed legislation to require disclosure of the sponsor of social media advertisements .
It has gone nowhere in the senate .
I have previously proposed removing the secrecy through a Public Interest .
We have a long way to go on this issue .
I understand the concerns about how tech platforms have centralized power .
Social media has ,  indeed ,  changed the way people create information .
But platforms such as Facebook have also changed how people consume content .
Openness and transparency must come to social media
Target casting should not destroy foundational elements of our democracy
Tom Wheeler ,  is Visiting Fellow -Governance Studies ,  Center for Technology Innovation
Talking about young Africans using smartphones .
Social Media takes pride of place in that description ,  despite their murkier side .
What has perhaps been overlooked ?
One area is the ever-growing community of sports betting in Africa .
The phenomenon of sports betting among African youths has taken the region by storm .
Recent polls and anecdotal reports point to a grim scenario ,  especially in Sub-Saharan Africa .
African youths between seventeen and thirty-five years have engaged in sports gambling .
Kenya ,  with seventy-four percent participation in sports betting .
The Survey of some two thousand seven hundred twenty-six African millennials was conducted .
A core driver of this trend has been the growing ubiquity of mobile telephony .
Added to this has been greater connectivity including satellite access to sports matches .
Sports betting has brought many ills to young people in Sub-Saharan Africa .
For an external and independent oversight .
There are deaths and serious injuries caused by police .
The oversight bodies ensure those police officers are monitored in their everyday affairs .
These initiatives include; police officer vetting and the revamping of a community policing program .
The Police Reform Working Group supported many of these attempts at police reform .
Several police officers said they were scared to speak out for fear of repercussions .
It can result in being transferred to a hardship area .
Police officers often cover for each other when involved in crime .
From the level of top leadership to the constable stationed at the charge office .
It is being enforced by both oversight bodies .
It essentially demands inspirational leadership that penalizes misconduct and sends a signal to all officers .
The conversation by Tom Wheeler Speaking recently at Georgetown University .
He added that it has always been necessary to build a more inclusive society .
People no longer rely on traditional gatekeepers to make their voices heard .
The economic incentive has worked to bring people together .
At least attempting a balanced presentation of the facts .
The economic model of maximizing revenue by maximizing reach is still governed .
Social media algorithms have extinguished the traditional economic model .
The profit comes from the targeted delivery of selected information .
It is necessary for a democracy to function .
Radio and television deliver to the widest possible audience .
Communications changed from after-the-fact newspapers to the wide distribution of real-time information .
Mark Zuckerberg addresses the audience on the challenges of protecting free speech .
Cable is like a video newsstand with many titles from which to choose .
The revenue-maximizing goal was still the same as broadcasters .
Software algorithms are owned by social media platforms .
They charge a premium to target a small but specifically defined group .
Target casting is available only to a specific audience .
Such a coming together ,  the Founders realized
An information commons- is a key component of moving from tribes to the larger Unum .
The algorithms keep users online for as long as possible ,  maximizing ad sales .
There was a concern that broadcasting could be captured to become an anti-democratic force .
The Federal Communications Commission used its congressionally delegated authority to impose Fairness Doctrine rules .
Television providers could target specific interests with specialized channels .
The airwaves weren't subject to balance requirements set by the Federal Communication Commission's rules .
The ability to change the channel remained freely available .
An open opportunity to find differing points of view .
We go to the social media sites with the most users .
It also promotes the propagation of questionable information .
The speed of twenty-first-century information dissemination makes this maxim quaint .
Misinformation is aided by corporate algorithms programmed to maximize profit instead of open information .
The Federal Communications Commission's Fairness Doctrine was eliminated during the Reagan administration .
Republican members of the Senate still try to extract a commitment to not reinstate .
The allegations are on the left-leaning information choices made by social media platforms .
The Federal Trade Commission is to investigate the editorial decisions of the social media companies .
It was the public's airwaves .
What is going into and out of social media algorithms ?
Perhaps Mr .  Zuckerberg's speech gets the final word at this point .
I believe the much bigger story is how much these platforms have decentralized power .
Corporate algorithms are now the "centralized power" in control of that consumption .
The dominant narrative is that these gadgets serve mostly as platforms for connection .
Smartphones are also affecting other facets of young people's lives .
Kenya had by far the largest percentage of youth involvement in this activity .
Around the continent combined with the availability of smartphones .
There is a ballooning population of young people with high levels of unemployment .
The authority conducts inspections of police premises .
Mark Zuckerberg is focused on giving people a voice ,  and bringing people together .
A forum was hosted by Georgetown University's institute at Politics and Public Service .
How users behave online and use that data to categorize them into specific groups .
The Founders realized it was essential for their experiment in democracy to function .
When the communal "We" is undermined they deliver different information to tribes in secret .
Broadcasting began in the twenties and thirties
The Fairness Doctrine rules were imposed on broadcasters requiring the airing of all sides .
On the social media sites with most users ,  that's where our friends are .
The public had a right to assure they weren't misused .
These platforms are putting decentralized power directly into people's hands .
Users can communicate and share greetings and information via text messages .
Burkina Faso led with a fifty-two percent increase .
Uganda was number fourteen with a seventeen percent increase .
South Sudan spent more in two thousand eighteen compared to two thousand seventeen .
These figures in the year two thousand seventeen were picked from data by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute .
According to Stockholm International Peace Research Institute ,  African governments spend on their military armies .
The post-cold war peak reached two thousand fourteen .
Military expenditure in Africa was still nine and two percent .
According to Stockholm International Peace Research Institute ,  military expenditure does not reflect military capability .
Tension in Great Lakes Region countries mainly; Uganda ,  Rwanda ,  Burundi ,  and the Democratic Republic of Congo .
Rwandan President Paul Kagame spoke strongly about people trying to destabilize Rwanda .
He said those backed by foreign forces will pay heavily for their actions .
Kagame promised to raise the cost on anybody who wants to destabilize our security .
On the fifteenth of November ,  rebel leader Musabimana Juvenal was killed in a security operation in Rutshuru .
Rwanda Special Forces are jointly deployed with the Democratic Republic Army .
Instead ,  Uganda said it would secure its border against militia forces .
On November seventeenth ,  in eastern Rwanda ,  Burundian soldiers were hit in a night attack .
Burundi's Ministry of Defense published reports on the attack that killed eight Burundian soldiers .
The company is said to have had ninety soldiers .
As many were injured ,  the rest fled in confusion .
Military sources quoted that it was one of the largest and deadliest attacks .
Informed sources described how the assailants pounced on Burundian soldiers on Mount Twinyoni .
Initial reports said that the attackers retreated in Rwanda .
Burundi accuses Rwanda of backing rebels opposed to the Bujumbura government
It is not true that the attacks were made by people who came from Rwanda .
We have other things to do .
On November tenth ,  two alleged Ugandan smugglers of tobacco into Rwanda were shot dead .
On November nineteenth ,  unknown attackers killed at least nineteen people in Beni .
This area lies just over the Rwenzori mountain from the Uganda border .
Beni is the base of the United Nations stabilization mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo .
The attackers reportedly kidnapped many people
According to Analysts ,  these incidents were on Rwanda's borders with the Democratic Republic of Congo .
Some analysts say regional leaders are building their armies and firepower for armed clashes .
Russia has been the biggest beneficiary in shipping arms to these countries .
This October ,  forty African heads of state and their delegations descended on Russian Black Sea city .
Russian President Vladimir Putin and other Russian officials met with African leaders .
Russia had laid out the military hardware favored by African countries .
Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed was photographed pensively eyeing model tanks .
Russia is the second-largest supplier of arms in the world .
Nigeria reportedly bought twelve helicopters and a deal for training and other equipment .
Between two thousand thirteen and two thousand seventeen ,  Chinese arms sales increased .
Chinese arms are picking up because they are easy to operate ,  effective ,  and cheap .
Stockholm International Peace Research Institute Arms Transfer Database shows that Uganda purchases equipment from Russia .
That is when it got the six famous aircraft in a deal with accessories .
It also bought Infantry Fighting Vehicles and forty-four tanks .
These assets have given Uganda superior air power compared to Rwanda ,  Burundi Tanzania ,  and others .
Only Kenya boasts more air firepower .
On November seventh President Museveni graduated eighteen Ugandan Air Force pilot cadets .
The base has new training facilities ,  equipment ,  and aircraft .
The ceremony featured flight demonstrations with Cessna piston trainers and jets from Bulgaria .
Rwanda has made most of its military orders from Russia ,  Israel ,  Turkey ,  and China .
Rwanda purchased fifty Red Arrow tank missiles from China were received in twenty-eighteen .
Rwanda was the first foreign armed force equipped with China's Red Arrow anti-tank missiles .
In twenty seventeen it got thirty Cobra Armored Protected Vehicles from Turkey .
Rwanda has Russian helicopters ,  Ural vehicles ,  small arms ,  and Air Defense Systems .
The two agreed military and technical cooperation in two thousand seventeen .
But Rwanda is equally receptive to the Chinese .
The military parade celebrating Rwanda's twenty-fifth Liberation Day in August .
The data indicate that military expenditure in Rwanda increased by two thousand eighteen .
Rwanda's highest expenditure was one hundred fifty-eight million dollars in nineteen ninety-one .
Burundi also boasts some Russian Arms .
The arms trade is however highly secretive .
It was revealed that agricultural company Green Horizon was a front for Israel .
Russian President Vladimir Putin met with African leaders in Sochi .
General Yisrael Ziv's security company was supplying arms to South Sudan .
Several sources claim to rank countries based on military strength .
Ethiopia is considered to have the highest firepower .
But Kenya and Uganda are far behind countries like Angola .
Rising tension has been high at the Uganda-Rwanda borders .
President Museveni and Paul Kagame have blocked open public discussion on the issues .
Tension on the Rwanda- Burundi border has lasted longer .
President Pierre Nkurunziza accuses Kagame of being the mastermind of a twenty fifteen coup attempt in Bujumbura .
Kigali accuses Bujumbura of sheltering camps of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda rebels .
The open hostility between Rwanda and Uganda is newer .
Museveni and Kagame were once comrades .
Wars in Uganda ,  Rwanda ,  and the Democratic Republic of Congo were commanded by Museveni and his lieutenant Kagame .
Since becoming president ,  Kagame has sought to break away from being Museveni's lieutenant .
As the independent has reported before ,  the two now view each other with suspicion .
The International Crisis Group reported that there is a quarrel between Rwanda and Uganda .
According to International Crisis Group: Their twenty-year collaboration means they know each other's secrets .
The top leaderships tend to see previously close associates as possible enemies .
He is known for his good negotiations .
In return ,  the Ugandan leadership views Kagame as resilient .
The Daily Monitor newspaper in Kampala in December twenty eighteen quoted Kagame .
Those challenges have been changing forms .
When it comes to us ,  our history ,  we do not take security challenges lightly .
We would not want to be found wanting in terms of taking care of our security .
Big or small ,  we will take care of it .
We have people in the region ,  others far away .
Some help people involved in political struggles .
We have to remind them that is not their business .
This attitude shows that Kagame feels that his government faces constant threats .
The feeling is compounded by a history of oppression .
African government spent forty billion six million United States dollars .
This was the largest relative annual decrease since the war peak reached .
Military expenditure in Africa was still higher in two thousand eighteen than in two thousand nine .
Kagame officiated a swearing-in ceremony of new cabinet ministers at parliament in Kigali .
Uganda said it would only join bilateral military arrangements with the Democratic Republic of Congo .
On their base near the border with Rwanda ,  Eastern Rwanda ,  Burundian soldiers were hit .
Their level of sophisticated equipment went beyond that of a rebel outfit
State Minister for East African Community told about the false accusations made by Burundi .
Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed checks out model tanks .
Allied Democratic Forces for years has been based in the Democratic Republic of Congo .
The Great Lakes Region is a neat pile of dry grass waiting for a single match stick to set it on fire .
China is scrambling to catch up with Russia in shipping arms to these countries .
Excitement over military cooperation and military hardware almost obscured deals in nuclear ,  oil gas ,  agriculture ,  and diamonds .
A recent winner of the Nobel Peace Prize was photographed pensively eyeing model tanks .
Russia leads in sales to Africa between two thousand seventeen and two thousand thirteen .
Twenty-one military agreements were signed in the last five years between Russia and Africa .
Africa accounts for twenty-one percent of China's arms exports ,  according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute
Chinese arms boast similar features to Russian weapons according to military expert reports .
Uganda's biggest purchases from Russia happened in two thousand eleven .
In two thousand seventeen ,  it got six helicopters from Russia .
Rwanda's Liberation Day was overseen by Chinese instructors from the People's Liberation Army Honor Guard .
Angola is playing a significant role in the current Great Lakes region tension .
From the twenty-seventh of February ,  Kigali stopped allowing travelers and Vehicles from Uganda .
Since two thousand seventeen ,  Burundi banned the export of fruits and vegetables to Rwanda .
The open hostility has a longer history of mutual suspicion and tension obscured . "
Museveni and Kagame commanded wars that toppled governments .
As a war strategy ,  he used the struggle against the military junta in Uganda .
Rwanda does not take lightly threats of invasions from neighboring countries
Are they inviting us to get involved in their politics ?
The reality of defending a geographically small country in a hostile environment .
African government spent an estimate of two point two percent on global military
It seems like the minister is on a mission .
Erias Lukwago has resolved to write to the Kadaga .
I did not intend to silence you and the Parliament
There are so many approaches in the struggle to liberate Uganda .
Robert Kyagulanyi and his supporters on November twenty-sixth in Kamwokya celebrated his award .
The former managing editor of the New Vision newspapers William Pike received the award .
President Museveni has given out Sixty five cars to Resident District Commissioners .
The Resident District Commissioners are currently deployed to promote government programs .
National Water and Sewerage Corporation is to set up three training facilities across the country .
Mugisha made the revelation during the graduation of the staff .
National Water and Sewerage Corporation can't grow sustainably without continuously training the people .
We want to graduate two thousand people instead of the three hundred .
This November marked twenty years since Colonel Kizza Besigye authored his famous dossier .
The document disturbed the class system of the National Resistance Movement .
Doctor Besigye criticized the creeping authoritarianism under President Museveni .
Besigye stated that he had taken a keen interest and participated in political activities .
This was during a period of intense jostling to topple .
Besigye is aware of the euphoria ,  excitement ,  and hope with which Ugandans received .
He accused the National Resistance Movement of sectarianism .
He declared to stand for the presidency .
Besigye has stood three more times against Museveni .
The speaker of Parliament Rebecca Kadaga was seen on President Museveni's ranch in Kisozi .
Kadaga was railing on a possible scam surrounding the construction of the bridge .
Kadaga joined Museveni at the ranch .
Elly Karuhanga last week took over the chairmanship of Private Sector Foundation Uganda .
Karuhanga was elected the board chairman .
Former Agriculture Minister ,  Victoria Sekitooleko ,  will deputize Karuhanga .
Other ten members were elected to the board .
Gideon Badagawa the current executive director is a former official .
My term of office ends today .
I am officially handing over to the very capable Elly Karuhanga .
I have confidence that the new board will take Private Sector Foundation Uganda forward .
Uganda raises profile as Meetings ,  Incentives ,  Conferences and tourism destination .
The team is from Uganda Tourism Board has just completed a three-day expo .
The exhibition is the leading global event for the Meetings ,  Incentives ,  Conferences ,  and Events industry .
Then it was coming out every three weeks .
The Independent is renowned for its groundbreaking investigations .
Its journalists have won numerous awards .
The magazine was founded by veteran journalist Andrew Mwenda .
Sarah Ngororano is the graphic designer of Independent Publications Limited .
Media Council of Kenya is in participation with the Food and Agriculture Organization .
Bwire spoke at the Kenya Science Journalist Congress at Sai Rock Hotel in Mombasa .
Bwire revealed that the Kenya Media Council is working with Makerere University .
The Uganda People Defense Force Jinja-based Legal Training Centre received a donation .
The computers were delivered and handed over to Legal Training Centre .
Twenty-one Uganda People Defense Force Officers have trained .
Samba Henk said that the Netherlands has not only provided equipment to Legal Training Center .
The ambassador said that he is glad that the Legal Training Center has made a transition .
He concluded that all these donations are a gesture of good collaboration .
While presiding over the ceremony ,  the commandant junior appreciated the contribution from the Netherlands government .
The Independent magazine marks its six hundredth issue .
The director of Wamala Mixed Secondary School Assad Wamala ,  in Mpigi .
Students of the school have reportedly come forward .
One of the students is a senior two student at the school .
President Museveni has ordered a deeper probe into the case .
Salim Uhuru the Kampala central National Resistance Movement chairman .
To solve the matter ,  Museveni dispatched Ronald Kibuule .
Trouble started when Kusasira snubbed a meeting Uhuru and others had organized .
Matters worsened when Kusasira said that the party leaders had to write to her .
Uhuru ,  Godfrey Nyakana ,  the National Resistance Movement chairperson for Kampala .
The National Resistance Movement bosses in Kampala continue to bicker .
Leading Pan African Service provider ,  Submarine Cable Operator has partnered with Raxio Data Center .
Always at the forefront of driving connectivity in Africa
Radio Uganda's world-class facility will become the cornerstone of digitization in the country .
This will help to provide a consistent and reliable experience for undersea cable customers in the region .
The cable operator will drive the internet of Uganda closer to businesses .
Radio Uganda was established by First Brick Holdings .
Radio Uganda will offer a wide variety of connectivity options .
The new data center is currently under construction .
Urbanization puts more pressure on existing water sources and bodies .
Company officials on November twenty-sixth announced the launch of a water recovery plant .
The Uganda Brewery Limited Managing Director said the plan is a strategic investment .
Uganda Breweries a subsidiary of Diageo has adopted this ambitious goal .
He added that they aim to achieve efforts in areas of greatest impact .
The water treatment project offers a treatment capacity of a thousand cubic meters of water .
Increased connectivity boosted in Uganda .
The high court ordered Senior Police Officer Godfrey Bangirana to vacate office .
The government inspector general has failed to collect twenty-four billion Ugandan shillings .
Chairperson of the Uganda Human Rights Commission Med Kaggwa passed away .
World's largest measles epidemic has killed five thousand .
There have been two hundred thirty-three thousand three hundred thirty-seven measles cases .
The huge majority of the affected people are kids .
Measles cases in the Democratic Republic of Congo this year is more than triple .
The Democratic Republic of Congo is also faced with an Ebola outbreak .
Measles is a contagious viral disease .
Eventually ,  infected people will develop a distinctive blotchy rash .
Fortunately ,  it is preventable with the help of effective vaccinations
The Democratic Republic of Congo suffers from a worryingly low vaccination rate .
From two thousand seventeen to two thousand eighteen the immunization rate was fifty-seven percent .
Immunization coverage in the European World Health region was ninety-four percent .
World Health Organization argues that vaccination coverage of ninety-five percent of the population .
The editor welcomes short and concise letters from our esteemed readers on current matters .
You can contact the magazine editor through electronic mail .
Health news analysis businesses treat bad health with simple nutrition .
Pretty good ,  however ,  this is simply assembling not production .
Have they thought of manufacturing the phone parts from Uganda rather than importing them ?
Though you call it partnership
The Minister has created a big crisis at the City Hall .
They explained the current situation at Kampala Capital City Authority through writing .
The Minister of energy apologized to the speaker .
It requires signing a petition to the International Criminal Court .
The Young African Male politician of the year was organized by the African Leaders Summit .
William Pike received the award from Abaas Mpindi at the Media Challenge Awards .
The Resident District Commissioners are from different regions .
Watuwa said the sixty-five cars constitute fifty percent of the Resident District Commissioners .
Silver Mugisha the managing director revealed plans by the National Water and Sewerage Corporation .
The staff graduated took part in the re-skilling training .
National Water and Sewerage Corporation has trained about one thousand people .
Rose Kaggwa revealed that the latest graduation attracted three hundred twenty-three graduates .
An insider's view on how National Resistance Movement lost the broad base .
Uganda was in the throes of a one-party political system .
By then President Museveni was in his thirteenth year in power .
Besigye participated in political activities on the Ugandan scene since the late nineteen seventies .
It later succeeds the Idi Amin regime .
The dossier resulted in the court martialing of colonel Besigye .
The party is a one-man dictatorship he further accused .
It was during the two thousand one elections .
Besigye has suffered the anger of the National Resistance Movement with teargas and constant arrests .
There are murmurs on the motive of the speaker's initiation by the President .
The bridge is from Kayunga to Kamuli .
Museveni was being visited by investors from the United States .
Elly Karuhanga took over the leadership from Patrick Bitature who had served two terms .
Karuhanga was elected during the meeting of the Private Sector Foundation Uganda .
It has been a remarkable pleasure to serve you .
Bitature said the new board will build a stronger and more resilient Uganda .
Tourism will improve Uganda's economy in the coming years .
Uganda joined other nations in marketing itself as a preferred destination for the expo .
The global event takes place annually in Barcelona ,  Spain .
It then graduated into a bi-weekly a year later .
The Independent has an insightful analysis of current affairs .
It continues to set the pace for the coverage of politics and business news .
The magazine is the most Independent and influential media platform for public policy debate .
Sarah Ngororana described working on the milestone issue as an honor .
A United Nations agency is planning to start training journalists in Eastern Africa .
The training will target at least sixty journalists in Kenya ,  Uganda ,  and Ethiopia
The climate change reporting is currently underway .
The media council is in the process of sending its team to Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia .
The training center received a donation from the government of the Netherlands .
The computers were handed over by the Netherlands ambassador to Uganda Henk Jan Bakker .
The defense officers have completed their studies in Refugee Law and Human Rights .
The Netherlands has also provided training both in Uganda and abroad to Ugandan students .
The center is already conducting such courses using its instructors and facilitators .
The collaboration is between the governments of Uganda and the Netherlands .
The contribution is in terms of equipment and manpower of facilitators .
East African journalists are to get training on climate change .
The school director will likely face charges of aggravated defilement and sexual assault .
Students are accusing the school director of defilement and rape .
Wamala was released on a police bond .
President Museveni appointed her as a special presidential advisor on Kampala affairs .
Other National Resistance Movement officials in Kampala have expressed their displeasure .
The minister of state for water is to meet Uhuru and others to calm tensions .
Kusasira said the party leaders had to seek an appointment to meet her .
The leaders cautioned Kusasira against under-mining the party in the execution of her new role .
The school director faces defilement charges .
Uganda's first carrier-neutral ,  an enterprise-grade data center is scheduled to be launched .
The facility will enable customers to seamlessly cross-connect within the data center .
The Cable Operator offers affordable ,  reliable ,  and quality internet connectivity .
Radio Uganda is the first of its network of state-of-the-art centers across the region .
Radio Uganda will provide diversity and flexibility for cable company customers .
The construction is scheduled for completion in the first quarter of the year of two thousand and twenty .
Uganda Breweries Limited is looking for ways to reduce the amount of water it uses .
The Water Recovery Plant is worth over ten million Uganda shillings .
Diageo's two thousand twenty water target is to reduce water consumption by fifty percent .
The plants should be uprooted to prevent the widespread of diseases .
Uganda breweries to use fifty percent less water in the year two thousand twenty .
Godfrey Bangirana ignored directives .
The money was lost in the seventy-four-kilometer Mukono Katosi Road .
Med Kaggwa passed away on the twentieth of November two thousand nineteen .
Nearly five thousand people have died in a measles outbreak .
Four thousand seven hundred twenty-three deaths in the Democratic Republic of Congo .
Children under the age of five accounted for almost seventy-five percent of infections .
This year measles has more than tripled compared to two thousand eighteen .
The Ebola outbreak killed two thousand one hundred ninety-three people this year .
Measles causes a runny nose ,  sneezing ,  and fever .
The rash spreads across the body after its first appearance on the face .
Many other parts of the world suffer from a worryingly low vaccination rate .
Two separate doses of a measles-containing vaccine are necessary .
Print Media uses social media in communication .
The African tax bodies target online companies .
It's simply putting China on the upper hand .
China is simply expanding its dynasty in the long run .
The Minister's mission is to cut down our efforts to serve the Kampala people .
Irene Muloni denied the money scam involving the building of the bridge in Kamuli .
Kyagulanyi won the Young African Male Politician of the year two thousand nineteen awards .
The award was for the mentorship of upcoming journalists .
The training facilities are to boost staff skills .
We think this is not enough because we have more than three thousand people .
One hundred sixty-eight of the graduates are industrial plumbers .
The president took power over Uganda in nineteen eighty-six .
He aired his views in the wrong forum .
It culminated in his declaration .
Besigye has been constantly arrested and got blockades to his home .
The construction of the bridge was for twenty-four billion shillings .
The meeting took place at the Uganda Manufacturer Association conference hall ,  Lugogo .
Gideon Bagawa said he is leaving the institution in good hands .
He officially handed over to Elly Karuhanga .
Elly Karuhanga murmurs over Kadaga's trip to Museveni's ranch .
Uganda's participation in the event will raise its profile .
In two thousand nine ,  it became a weekly .
Victor Bwire stated that journalists will be trained on the effects of climate change .
It is also incorporated into higher institutions of learning curricula across the region .
The new development is intended to arm journalists with climate change knowledge .
It has an objective of fully developing and building the capacity of the Centre .
The Brigadier attributed to better diplomatic relations .
The Netherlands donates thirty computers to Uganda People's Defense Force
The appointment caused bickering among National Resistance Movement officials in Kampala .
President Museveni sidelined the officials in his plan to win over the ghetto .
The National Resistance Movement Party leaders wanted to discuss issues related to Kampala .
The party leaders include; Uhuru ,  Beti Kamya the minister for Kampala and Godfrey Nyakana .
November twenty-nine to December fifth two thousand nineteen .
The data center is scheduled to launch in the first quarter of the year two thousand twenty .
Highlighting the mutual benefit of the partnership .
The data center will operate according to tier three standard facilities .
The brewery company uses the water in the production processes .
The Water Recovery Plant is to aid in the water usage target .
Recently ,  the brewery used four-point nine liters of water per liter of beer .
The company will minimize the amount of water that we already use .
Were you aware of the humor ?
The measles outbreak is in the Democratic Republic of Congo .
It is the world's largest and fastest-moving measles epidemic .
Nearly ninety percent of death caused by measles .
The United Nations Children's Fund stated in its statement in October .
The two doses will effectively prevent a mass outbreak .
The Independent Magazine Uganda costs five thousand Ugandan shillings .
Museveni commissions Uganda's first mobile phone factory .
Mugisha Muntu is on a petition to indict president Museveni .
The African Leaders Summit organized the awards in Accra ,  Ghana .
The Media Challenge Awards were held at Serene Hotel on November twenty-fourth .
Mugisha added that the corporation is adding more training outlets .
The graduation attracted eighteen industrial plumbers at level three diploma
Elly Karuhanga is the new chairman of the Private Sector Foundation Uganda .
National Water and Sewerage Corporation will fix the water pipes next week
Assembling a product in Uganda means it wasn't made in Uganda
How is the ministry going to handle the discarding of phone batteries
Graphite in batteries degrades the environment when batteries are improperly disposed
toxicities are going to rise as phones are sold cheaply on the market
Rising phone toxicities puts Ugandans at risk of cancer infection
put in place ways to recycle the hazardous material from digital devices once dumped
Uganda's first mobile phone has been commissioned by Museveni
We need to be patient as we work towards improving our livelihoods
A developing country like Uganda should focus on industrialization to create jobs
some media platforms and some opposition leaders have criticized Makerere University Kampala
Some opposition leaders are relating the recent fire at Makerere University to politics
The leaders are leading to the failure of the university
The students are doing their best to see to it that the University functions to its best
Makerere University has been ranked third in the top 40 universities in Sub-Saharan Africa
Makerere University has conducted some of the best research in Africa
Government should inject more money into University research
Ugandans should see Makerere as a historical institution
Makerere University is not a common university due to its history
Makerere University has notable alumni in leadership positions
Uganda Energy Minister denies Isimba Dam bridge money was stolen
Denying theft of public funds doesn't mean the minister supports the action
Speaker of Parliament Rebecca Kadaga can order an inquiry if she has credible evidence
The government is not run by responding to all sorts of allegations
Allegations should be backed up by credible evidence
Baseless allegations lead to loss of critical time
Mobile phone factory is an opportunity to improve the livelihoods of youth
The Bombo group now wallows in poverty and zero recognition
Oyite Ojok is remembered for have displayed impunity and murdering at will
Life is unpredictable so we should be kind to one another
Janani Luwum's children are known to have good postings in government
Janani Luwum is considered a martyr in Uganda
Change of regime affects the outgoing leaders as most go into exile
The Minister of Energy's silence to Kadaga's concern raised suspicion of corruption
Mineral Development Beneficiation Center will help Uganda produce hardware parts needed in phone making
Christopher Bagamba hopes we can make phone parts in future
Former Deputy Prime Minister ,  Henry Kajura is in financial trouble
Former politicians lose property to money lenders and banks for failure to pay loans .
It's shocking when a long-serving cabinet member loses a house due to debts .
Kajura isn't the only former politician to find himself in financial trouble .
There's a long list of politicians who move from cabinet/parliament to economic stress .
people see politicians as corrupt and therefore rich but this isn't always the case .
It is not true that every politician is financially stable .
The public misunderstands corruption by thinking all government officials are rich
People look at joining politics as a way of accumulating personal wealth .
Corruption is the way political power in poor countries is organized .
Corruption helps politicians build constituencies of support by accumulating quick wealth .
Politicians tighten their grip on power by constantly giving out money to their constituents .
We should understand how power is organized and exercised in a poor country .
Most African countries are ethnically and religiously diverse .
Many African countries are poor hence heavily dependent on Western financial assistance .
Religious and ethnic divisions create strong moral and psychological attachment identity among Africans
a political party must win over influential pillars of opinion in ethnic and religious groups
Powerful pillars of opinion include traditional leaders ,  successful businesspersons ,  and religious clerics
Religious leaders act as a bridge between the president and the religious community
Ugandans seeing their own in a high government office is an expression of their presence in government
power-sharing gives the people a sense of belonging to the nation
The president has over 100 presidential advisors
Patronage is used by Museveni to deprive the opposition of high profile individuals
opposition explains why it cannot find enough high profile individuals to field in parliamentary elections
Successful politicians are those who meet cultural obligations in their communities
Politicians meet their constituents financial needs by paying fees and medical bills for some
There is inequality of wealth and income in poor communities
politicians cultivate a political following by attending burial ceremonies
Most politicians use the personal income to meet their constituents financial needs
Politicians in control of the state use public funds to meet constituents financial needs
legislators are constantly met with demands for financial assistance from their poor constituents
Ordinary constituents have a concept that their legislator is a financial helper
Legislators are seen as rich and generous in rural communities .
Generosity takes a large share of a politician's income .
You have to share your wealth with people to succeed politically
Legislators are unable to meet individual constituent financial demands on their income .
The state cannot provide a large basket of public goods and services to constituents .
The resources available to the individual politician and to the state are different .
politicians borrow to endear themselves to voters by exhibiting exaggerated generosity
over half of our legislators have their salary cut to pay off their loans
Politicians expect to pay their loans through corruption on being appointed to cabinet
legislators get bribes from other thieving public officials in exchange for covering up their theft
We are deluded expecting parliament to act as a check on the executive
Not every legislator can be appointed to cabinet
Politics involves making risky bets when one takes a loan expecting a cabinet position
Those who lose elections find themselves unable to repay their debts hence bankruptcy
A president has to create opportunities for his party members to make money
A Minister is expected to help his constituents find jobs
Corruption is not an Africa only problem as western nations face it too
Governments in poor countries use corruption to consolidate power
read the history of Europe in the 19th century to learn about corruption
Corruption is the way the governance system works in Uganda
Politicians use corruption to build electoral and governing coalitions
We have criminalized ways of managing power relations in Uganda
Corruption is an obstacle to the development of a modern state
Historically corruption has not stopped economic development
Modern meritocratic states grow inside the womb of patrimonial ones
Economic growth and societal structural transformation change the old system of governance
A quick transformation to a modern meritocratic state is nearly impossible .
Revolutions don't always bring economic and social transformation as expected .
Uganda ,  Rwanda ,  and Burundi are experiencing tense political cross-border situations .
Uganda's military expenditure has exponentially increased in twenty-eighteen .
Branding a product made in Uganda doesn't necessarily mean it was made here .
Toxicities from phone batteries affect the livelihood of Ugandans
Uganda's first mobile factory is to provide more jobs for the youth
Economic development doesn't happen overnight so patience is key
The University council should work with students for the University to function to its best
Makerere University Council should listen to student requests and needs and work with them
Credible evidence is needed on the Isimba Dam corruption scandal
Not a single family member of Oyite Ojok is traceable to any serious activity
The Mineral Development Beneficiation Center will be one of its kind in Ntungamo District
Many politicians go broke after leaving the cabinet
A president must win over powerful pillars of opinion in religious groups to keep in power
Tribal leaders can win favor amongst their communities for the ruling party
A power-sharing feeling is felt when a tribe has enough representation in government
Power-sharing legitimizes the state
Uganda has over two hundred forty Resident District Commissioners
Museveni uses high profile individuals to rally a mass political base
The opposition faces a big challenge of Museveni appointing most high profile individuals
Attending religious services and ceremonies is an effective way of rallying political support
Generous contributions to funerals and weddings are a way of gaining political support
Legislators find it hard to save as they're always financially assisting constituents
Ministers pay for constituents' expenses which result in corruption
The Ministry has a challenge of monitoring the proper disposal of phone batteries
Uganda has about one hundred and fifty semi-autonomous government agencies
Corrupt politicians remain popular because they share their "loot" with their co-ethnics
The politician helps people with personal needs like school fees ,  medical bills ,  and funerals .
Our politicians are always under enormous pressure to meet these needs .
This is because our voters do not distinguish .
Corruption is ,  therefore a forbidden practice .
Corrupt politicians who are generous in their ethnic or religious communities win elections .
People are even more willing to support one of their own .
Ethnic tensions undermine the rule of law .
India has the longest surviving democracy of any poor country in the world today .
Twenty percent of candidates for parliament were facing criminal charges .
This number has been growing at a rate of two percent in every election .
As a result ,  one-third of India's parliament is under criminal indictment .
The report said that the money had been embezzled .
Uganda is headed in the same direction as democratic competition deepens .
Over the last twenty-five years of electoral politics ,  we have seen honest politicians .
This is because they are not willing to dirty their hands looting the state .
The problem is that there are many crooks ready to join .
In rich countries ,  the private sector is rich enough to fund parties .
There are also many rich individuals and private organizations/foundations to do similar .
The private sector is small and most rich individuals are beholden to the state .
Therefore ,  the only reliable source of political money is corruption .
Consequently ,  corruption is not just a means for individual enrichment .
This is why we need to understand ,  even though we may refuse to endorse Museveni .
Our president moves with cash-stuffed envelopes ,  which he liberally hands over to people
The young Museveni would have been revolted by this crass bribery and political opportunism .
He has outlived many of his bush compatriots in large .
Many Ugandans accept his transformation with the humility of experience .
With this knowledge ,  we can craft a political model .
Most of the people who get elected to public office have little incentive .
Their success shows they are beneficiaries of the system .
It would literally be like asking them .
Money politics is not a cause of our poverty but a symptom of it .
It does not mean that we cannot outgrow it
The United States had a very corrupt political machine system .
The country remains saddled with a lot of political corruption .
Up until the end of the nineteenth century when America was poor and agrarian .
Early efforts to criminalize vote-buying in the United States of America were resisted .
Whichever political reform we attempt ,  it won't eliminate the centrality of money in politics .
It can only limit it with tradeoffs .
Will Durant ,  said there are only three successful forms of government known to man .
One way to limit vote-buying is to introduce proportional representation .
Here political parties ,  not individuals ,  would compete for votes .
Parliamentary seats would be allocated .
This system would reduce the incentive of individual politicians .
It would shift power from voters at the grassroots .
The jockeying for top slots on the list of parliamentarians would centralize corruption .
This would shift money from a multitude of voters .
Winnie ,  would you accept to be our candidate for President ?
His wife ,  Winnie Byanyima was surprised .
And the conversation soon became even more serious
Winnie said: "It would be suicidal" .
How would you take him on ?
I guess they are .
Days later ,  on October twentieth ,  two thousand ,  Besigye dropped another surprise on Winnie
Again she answered with a weighty caution
I will support you .
We are defying Museveni .
He is going to fight us to the end .
On October twenty-eighth ,  two thousand at a little known restaurant in Kampala .
Nineteen years later ,  Winnie appears to have been prophetic on both counts .
Secondly ,  Museveni and Besigye appear determined to "fight to the end"
Kalinaki published his book in two thousand fourteen .
The two thousand twenty-one presidential election nears .
And what will be the result ?
The document stirred divisions in the National Resistance Movement .
Dr .  Besigye criticized the creeping autocracy under President Yoweri Museveni .
Besigye started off writing that I have taken a keen interest and participated in politics .
I am ,  therefore ,  fully aware of the excitement which Uganda received .
Besigye accused the National Resistance Movement of sectarianism .
It culminated in his declaration to stand for the presidency .
Since the two thousand one election ,  Besigye has stood three more times against Museveni .
He has incurred the wrath of the National Resistance Movement regime with trials ,  teargas .
But two thousand nineteen marks thirty years since Besigye became disillusioned with Museveni .
The trigger appears to have been a decision in October .
The National Resistance Council had expanded its membership with two hundred twenty county representatives .
Some people did not support the Besigye campaigning during the two thousand sixteen elections .
Waswa Ziritwawula ,  a representative from the Democratic Party ,  resigned from the National Resistance Council .
Some people demanded a referendum on the issue .
However ,  bush war acolytes defied them ,  sometimes with threats .
Gertrude Njuba assured that the National Resistance Council was there .
Kalinaki wrote that the National Resistance Council was set up to formalize the decisions .
I could not see how we could make a transition with Museveni .
At a personal level that confidence had completely collapsed .
By that time I was convinced that there was corruption .
It only got worse .
But from that time ,  I knew we were in for a difficult time .
However ,  we could not even persuade anybody that there was a huge problem .
Many people had not awoken to the disaster that we were sitting with .
My mind was made up much earlier than we were heading for trouble .
Besigye initially sought to correct what he saw as going wrong .
On prompting Museveni's brother Salim Saleh he wrote a dossier .
In it he pointed issues that were ,  in his view ,  not being handled properly .
The issue of recruitment to and promotion within the army was contentious at the time .
Whether the money is stolen from the state or acquired honestly is irrelevant .
Voters don't distinguish between the private resources of a politician and the public finances .
People are even more willing to support that .
People think the corrupt steal for them .
These charges range from murder to rape and extortion .
Candidates with criminal records in India are three times more likely to win elections .
The honest politicians quit electoral competition or are trounced when they have tried .
The private sector is rich enough to fund individuals who represent its interests .
He stepped down from his revolutionary utopia to the hard rock of reality .
The model is to limit the role of money in politics .
It is like asking them to bite the hand that feeds their political success
The corrupt political-machine system has over decades improved albeit slowly .
A lot of political corruption has been legalized like lobbying .
Votes were sold in an open marketplace the way we buy tomatoes and beans .
We give up on democracy .
The three forms of government include aristocracy ,  theocracy ,  and democracy .
The parliamentary seats are allocated according to the share of votes a party got .
Individual politicians ingratiate themselves with voters by giving them money .
Power from voters is shifted at the grassroots to political party bosses .
Aspiring legislators would now bribe party bosses .
Money is shifted to a small group of party bigwigs .
Kizza Besigye posed that question sometime in early October two thousand .
I wouldn't do that !
Winnie countered that it takes some time to turn discontent into votes
I hope you realize that this is a one-way ticket .
The book is titled "Kizza Besigye: Uganda's Unfinished Revolution"
Besigye publicly declared his intention to challenge Museveni in a press statement .
He has challenged Museveni in four presidential elections over sixteen years .
The two thousand sixteen presidential battle between Museveni and Besigye already looming .
Most Ugandans are asking whether Besigye will again challenge Museveni for the fifth time .
This is the time when Besigye will finally succeed .
It was then known as the Movement .
Museveni was then in his thirteenth year in power having taken over Uganda .
I have participated in political activities on the Ugandan scene .
The dossier resulted in the court martialing of Besigye .
It culminated in his declaration in the two thousand one elections .
He also incurred constant arrests ,  torture ,  and blockades on his home .
They had not appointed the National Resistance Movement or its organs in the first place .
The National Resistance Council was set to formalize National Resistance Movement decisions .
There was no respect for the rules and plans we were making
Corruption scandals rocked the country .
Besigye sought to correct what was wrong within National Resistance Movement .
The dossier was addressed to top army officers .
Issues not held properly include recruitment ,  training ,  deployment ,  legal and regulatory deficiencies .
Muhoozi Kainerugaba ,  Museveni's son ,  joined the military .
They see such accusations as attempts to sideline them .
We cannot eliminate it .
It was perfectly legal .
How can you ,  in this short time take on Museveni ?
Besigye appears to have failed to "turn discontent into votes" .
This November marked twenty years since Besigye penned his famous dossier .
Museveni took over Uganda in one thousand nine hundred eighty-six .
Besigye participated in political activities since the late seventies .
They toppled over and later succeed the Idi Amin regime .
At that time ,  Besigye was a Colonel in the Uganda People Defense Force .
The decision was made by the National Resistance Council .
The capriciousness of Museveni's rule .
Muhoozi joined the military with many of his close friends and associates .
Besigye said people are fed up with him .
An insider's view on how National Resistance Movement lost the broad base'
Besigye aired his views in the wrong forum .
The council was the parliament of that time .
Intolerance had developed .
They joined the military in alleged unclear circumstances .
Sam Rwakoojo's contract had expired .
Murchison falls is located in the North-Western part of the country .
Conservationists explain that the construction will destroy the ecosystem and the country's tourism prospects .
He addressed a stakeholders meeting convened by Uganda Wildlife Authority .
The ministry will put science into considerations when they embrace the project .
The small capsules contain mysterious blood powder that imitates human blood .
The bride arrives in the coffin for the wedding .
The roof is covered with solar panels that help it have sufficient electricity .
The international motoring journalists embrace the latest generation .
Others include Range rover ,  Renault Clio ,  Tesla model three ,  Toyota corolla ,  Volkswagen ,  and Volvo .
Mazda Three was the women's car of the year two thousand and nineteen .
This center for development is at the University of Bern .
Edith Nakalema is unempowered in fulfilling her obligations towards corrupt generals .
She was responding to the parliamentary questions .
This was at Kingdom Kampala on December second .
The electoral commission gave little time towards updating the voter's register .
He explained that the government drafted a paper to carry out the feasibility study .
Museveni sent the controversial Genetically Modified Organisms Bill back to Parliament twice .
The United States government strongly backs the passing of the Genetically Modified Organisms Bill .
Malac has low-cut blonde hair and colorful outfits .
Reports say she is headed to Rome ,  Italy as her next posting
Electoral Commission faces suit over registration deadline .
I want to see what the police officers are doing .
I don't want to monitor only the criminals ,  but also my group .
The cameras should be installed at the police station counters .
Police constructed a three-storeyed structure and also installed monitoring gadgets .
The commission was the end of the first phase of the installation of cameras .
Museveni's pushed for the closed-circuit television cameras .
The closed-circuit television cameras center is for monitoring police too .
Museveni was joined by other government officials like Chief Justice Bart Katureebe ,  Rebecca Kadaga .
The walk is being held in commemoration of the anti-corruption week in early December
The anti-corruption walk is also meant to mark one year .
Ugandans commenting on social media expressed dissatisfaction .
Ugandans scorned the piecemeal attempts at fighting corruption .
John Muhanguzi Kashaka may spend more time in jail .
Kashaka's conviction and sentence were jointly upheld with that of Henry Bamutura .
The Anti-corruption Court convicted the three in two thousand fourteen .
The said bicycles were to be used by parish and Local chairpersons .
The bicycles have never been delivered
However ,  the convicts challenged their respective sentences and conviction .
They also argued that the lower court is incorrect in law and fact .
My prosperity comes from others .
If I say my tribe ,  my tribe ,  it doesn't make sense .
Museveni emphasized the need for a united Uganda in particular .
The sixty-man delegation was on a five-day visit to the country .
The court holds Kashaka's ten-year jail sentence .
Joshua Cheptegei is the current ten-kilometer world champion .
What a year it has been .
I can't believe what the twenty-three-year-old said after the race .
I knew that Valencia was going to be a really fast course .
So to get to achieve what we came here for is something really special .
Cheptegei is a leading contender for the ten thousand meters gold .
Cheptegei caps two thousand nineteen with a new ten-kilometer record .
Nine people have so far been arrested .
The suspects include six Uganda People's Defense Force soldiers and three civilians .
Cherukut was undergoing a course at the College of Logistics and Engineering in Magamaga
Nine held over the murder of Uganda People's Defense Force soldier in Jinja .
Security forces stopped hundreds of demonstrators attempting to get close to United Nations headquarters .
There has been an explosion of anger over the perceived failure of United Nations peacekeepers .
Over twenty people were killed by attackers .
Many of the victims were hacked to death or beheaded .
A few Beni residents were killed last month .
More anti-United Nations protests in the Democratic Republic of Congo .
He launched the two thousand nineteen Forum On China African Cooperation .
Museveni addressed the conference at Speke Resort Munyonyo .
He pointed out that for Uganda and Africa to get out of poverty .
The way to abolish poverty is through each family in Uganda and Africa .
Museveni stresses Information Communication Technology at the China Africa conference .
I think that whoever is advising the government on this has got it wrong .
Murchison falls should be left untouched .
It is one of the only remaining natural tourists attractions .
I think the government needs to weigh the options very critically .
Tourism is increasingly becoming a major foreign exchange earner with minimal government investment
We should not solely rely on some foreigners .
We should as a country be moving away from very expensive projects .
I have been making a critical look at what is called Rural Electrification
An air-conditioned office is good in Kampala .
The rural people only stop at paying for the connection .
Maybe the trading centers where the power is used for commercial purposes .
According to the Uganda Police Annual two thousand nineteen Crime Report .
Theft is rampant in Kampala city and peri-urban areas .
According to the same report ,  cases of break-ins ,  theft ,  and robbery continued to increase .
The killings of mobile money agents and other victims about money .
The efforts of the government to combat crime in many ways .
This ,  therefore ,  begs one to ask .
Traditional Banking services are still considered the safest way to keep money today .
From traveler's checks to bank slips to depositing via the automated teller machine .
Early this year ,  just ahead of the African Cup of Nations semifinals in Egypt .
I had a chance to watch a live game with my nine-month son for free .
As I listened to the radio this morning ,
I think as customers we should be the ones to pay these companies .
I urge you to embrace the use of Digital services across different platforms .
Why should poor countries of the East African Community go into an arms race ?
In two thousand eleven ,  President Museveni raided the treasury and bought six jet fighters .
The jets are parked to rust away in the tropical heat and rain .
Only once in a while ,  but still piloted by Russian experts .
If the seven hundred forty dollars were put to productive use .
Who's buying the biggest guns in East Africa .
Well thought out comment
Actually ,  I keep wondering why we have very few state partnerships .
If indeed we were strategic we would be having partnerships in many areas .
Besigye's political honesty .
In attendance was Doctor Kizza Besigye ,  the leading pillar of the opposition in Uganda .
Besigye said Uganda Patriotic Movement lost in the one thousand nine hundred eighty elections .
Besigye said Rukikaire got the highest number of votes .
There are expectations to this rule .
However ,  overall political competition requires money everywhere even in the richest countries .
In poor countries ,  money gains greater significance because the electorate is ethnically diverse .
For poor people ,  small donations of sugar or meat and soap acquire disproportionate importance .
Agrarian societies have values and norms .
I made the same point as Besigye in this column last week .
Malac always spoke out on other issues of press freedom and transparency in government .
Ambassador Malac also supported the controversial Genetically Modified Organisms Bill .
The Genetically Modified Organisms Bill was passed by the Ugandan parliament .
Malac has proved a force on the social scene .
Ambassador Deborah Malac leaves after a four-year tenure .
The cameras will enable monitoring of the performance of police officers .
The push intensified after the killing of Ibrahim Abiriga .
The State House Anti-Corruption Unit is headed by Colonel Edith Nakalema .
Ugandans are dissatisfied about many taking part in the walk leading culprits of corruption .
The government usually undertakes piecemeal attempts to fight corruption .
The Court of Appeal upheld a ten-year jail sentence handed to Muhanguzi .
Sam Emorut Erongot will serve for thirteen years .
The more members you have the more votes in an election .
Political parties say their voter strength has gone up .
Party members have increased to nine million .
Registration has created fights within and outside the party .
So are the figures telling a lie ?
Sixteen million voters were below eighteen years .
The population estimates for the year twenty-ten are million people .
There were many registered voters below eighteen years .
Five million new voters seem unrealistic .
The accurate figure will be got after removing ghosts from the voter's register
Many people participated in the previous elections .
The voter turnout has increased greatly this year .
In two thousand ten ,  the voter increase has been one hundred percent .
The fertility rate has remained constant since the last population census .
I doubt that people will turn up for voting .
There are many security measures put in place .
These incidents show that terrorism is an international security threat .
Tragic events would be avoided if organizers take basic security measures
Other security measures include metal detectors at entrance points to detect bombs .
Everyone must be aware of their surroundings at all times .
Everybody should take interest in what goes on in their neighborhood .
The public should not panic in the face of these terrorist attacks .
By working together we can defeat the terrorists .
They make money from nomination fees .
We wish to give a background to this state of affairs .
The minister is a man of integrity .
Our protest about dividing constituencies has been ignored .
People were denied registration on grounds of being foreigners .
Our protests about these malpractices have not been successful .
Some were held at roadblocks until nomination was over .
The unopposed candidates all came from one region .
God is merciful like a mother .
Since the nineteen ninety-six elections ,  there is an average increase of voters .
Maybe some people were unable to witness the voter display exercise .
They should be aware of electronics like radios and mobile phones .
Their food has been transferred to the stores .
Most constituencies were divided on the choice of candidates .
This says a lot about the fairness we expect from the officers .
So why were you accused of trying to kill him ?
If I had been involved in his shooting ,  he would be dead .
Did you do business with that gentleman ?
I am a businessman ,  I do not get involved in politics .
I will never get involved in the military or political work again .
He has been handsomely rewarded .
Both men have been treated as suspects .
They witnessed the shooting yesterday .
The driver was arrested thirty hours later .
It is not the only government that is seeking his deportation .
I went back to the Guest House where I was staying .
They took me to prison and dumped me there .
So what happens when you start a new company ?
They passed by his house first before they left for school .
The killers came into the house a few days earlier .
They had special keys which allowed them to enter the house easily .
They wanted to go into the bedroom and shoot him .
The driver said he stopped the car suddenly .
He managed to organize a good party .
I retired from the army and went into business .
I asked what he told them as the story sounded suspicious .
I asked if he knows his voice ,  he said never heard him speak .
This story of killers coming into the house sounded fishy .
They always found him asleep in his bedroom .
What type of killers are these ?
I sometimes worked as a cleaner .
Children have to eat a balanced diet .
The police have surrounded the village .
All Ugandan vehicles to get new number plates .
The winds are very strong today .
All these things are against me .
The police recorded statements from there .
Their performance surprised me .
They had an interest in killing him .
From the time he was a rebel leader till he became president .
However ,  the gun jammed and then the killer ran away .
They managed to shoot the general's daughter .
The wife and the driver were also injured in the shooting .
In other counties ,  people are stopped from participating in political campaigns .
He said everyone will be regarded as an enemy .
It is not good to imitate people .
Such a situation would not be allowed in the constituency .
There are many building projects in that district .
The big task ahead of us will be accomplished .
He called on the party members to be firm in their support .
Some members have worked hard to tear apart this party apart .
We heard patrol soldiers coming in the night .
Who are you ,  a thundering order comes through the darkness ?
There was a loud thunderstorm last night .
I was walking to the Senior Quarters where I lived .
She was rescued by soldiers and taken to hospital .
The area was on high-security alert .
Her assailants were never identified and arrested .
She has never gotten justice for the murder of her brother .
There was a heavy presence of soldiers in the town .
I could not sit back knowing the area was insecure .
The soldiers left her unconscious .
She was rescued by the patrol police at night .
Her story is one of undying resilience and defiance .
Uganda's malaria prevalence rate has been on a downward track .
This success story is not reflective of the situation in the country .
In war-torn regions ,  there is a rise in sexual violence against women .
In northern Uganda ,  malaria infections are high .
Nine percent of women in Northern Uganda are infected .
Girls as young as three years old and women have been raped .
The women's stories are hardly ever told to the public .
The rape and loss of her two children caused her mental damage .
She was found to have breast cancer .
My husband knew that I had been raped but never said anything .
He took the corona test but was found negative .
Her in-laws said she had been unfaithful in her marriage .
The disclosure of her coronavirus status cost her the marriage .
The husband chased her from the house .
She got many health problems when she left her marriage .
They walk thirty-two miles to Soroti town to get medicine .
My husband realized I was not going to die .
My husband took me back to the house but we slept in separate rooms .
They cant raise four hundred thousand shillings for an operation .
Victims of sexual violations hardly get attention from policymakers .
The stigma of rape makes it hard to overcome .
She provides paralegal services to victims of sexual violence .
The youth will spearhead the development programs .
Even after the war ,  few cases are reported to the authorities .
Another barrier to justice is the lack of trust in the police .
Gender-based violence is high among couples .
Women are the main targets of sexual violence .
Sexual violence thrives most in societies without authoritative bodies .
The theme intended to find solutions to Africa's most terrible problems .
The summit had the task of handling maternal and infant mortality rates .
The continent has witnessed long-term violent conflicts .
The sentences had to be validated again .
The children's immunity has been compromised .
Children have to be given a lot of fruits to boost their immunity .
Lung diseases are common among smokers .
It is not clear some leaders do not want to talk about peace .
Nothing was said about African leaders who commit crimes against humanity .
This serves as a strong accusation for Africa .
Malaria is a killer disease among children .
Many deaths are caused by delays in seeking medical care .
Mothers go to the hospital when they are too sick for doctors to help them .
The maternal problem is worsened by a shortage of health workers .
Maternal mortality rates in Uganda are decreasing .
The poem was written by a four-year-old child .
She walked into the labor ward and came out alive .
Farmers always need to plant before the rains start .
Dancers were dancing to the ululating crowds .
Children should be given enough time to play .
The disagreement between the people and government has not changed .
Lung diseases need to be detected early .
The disease diagnosis approach is available in all health centers .
People need to improve their communication skills .
The government will not transfer a lot of power to the people .
The palace officials remain defensive of the kingdom's independence .
There has been a lot of pressure applied to immigrants .
Lately ,  fires have been destroying schools .
The cause of the fire that gutted the building in Makerere is still unknown .
The police is still investigating the cause of the fire .
The police has released a report on the cause of the fire .
Many stories indicate that the fire was due to an electrical fault .
The university was advised to have fire extinguishers in every building .
Many people cannot afford the cost of health care in Uganda .
The ministry of health needs to reduce child death rates by a third .
The scent of roasted meat filled the air .
Coronation is still an important event to celebrate .
The Baganda insisted on attending the event during the lockdown period .
We needed to collect more data for the research .
Kabaka significantly aided Museveni's Luweero bush war .
The government was on its way to fulfilling its promise to Baganda .
When the war ended ,  the people were not rewarded .
Teacher absenteeism should be avoided .
The challenge of teacher absenteeism is a major problem in the district .
Her motivation was not known .
The work was not checked by the teacher .
Health facilities in the remotest of regions are well-stocked with medicines .
Medicines are not stolen by health workers operating illegal ,  clinics .
Absenteeism is not an issue because health workers turn up on time .
The impact on intergroup relations should not be ignored .
Political campaigns are occasions for bribery of voters .
We have many boda boda riders in Kampala .
No officers should claim to be above the law .
Access to state media by all legal political parties is guaranteed .
No owner of a private radio station is threatened with closure .
Building permits have been given out by the council .
When you break the law ,  you suffer the consequences .
There are no publicly known cases of individuals stealing public funds .
No traffic policemen and women are harassing ordinary motorists .
Having building regulations is indicative of a strong and organized state .
These are things that do not happen in weak and collapsed states .
There is bribery in the city council .
There are many parameters that should be considered when buying land .
The land around Kampala is very expensive .
Fighting corruption is one of the main pillars of government .
Police top the list of institutions where corruption was the highest .
Respondents were asked about the purpose of the bribe .
Findings were added up to rank the institutions with the highest rate of bribery .
It regularly exposes cases of fraud ,  malpractice ,  and corruption .
Bribery is likely to happen in the police .
Eighty percent perceive their country to be extremely corrupt .
The limitations of the work have been identified .
They ensured that the new government gets no foreign assistance .
The crisis justifies the waiver of the prescribed procurement procedures .
On average seven percent of cases have been reported .
What they did was very awful .
Bug bites are harmless to our lives .
Methane needs to be treated with a process called biogas upgrading .
Wish I had more details but thats all they are revealing .
The results are impressive .
The achievements of the last fifty years inspire you .
These are public funds that we are talking about .
We want to see is a cheque of eight hundred nine shillings .
What will happen in the primaries will be worse .
It is a sad chapter in the history of the National Resistance Movement .
He will be greatly missed .
The army was in control of the State at that time .
I have never heard of the term blood diamonds before .
The word racism was not enough under those circumstances .
You take the front line when there is danger .
Then people will appreciate your leadership .
It is better to lead from behind and to put others in front
The plot in dispute is between the university and a private developer .
He was born as the eldest child of a missionary couple .
These two taught him to treat all men and women equally .
Later in his youth ,  he wandered away from the faith .
He embraced all his battles ,  including his last illness with patience .
He was a father with an enduring and steady faith in the goodness of humanity .
Above all ,  he was a Ugandan nationalist .
When someone falls ill ,  they can go to any hospital .
His job is to mobilize sick people to go to hospitals .
He has achieved one hundred percent success in this too .
But why support him with wasted excitement ?
Many people at these rallies are very happy .
I am a foreign journalist seeking to know what animates the campaigns .
He turns immediately to answer my questions .
The government gave me this mobile phone ,
I have signed up three hundred ninety-one people in my village .
He begins to speak as if addressing a political gathering .
He has forgiven those who participated in the racial killing .
I have seven children and all of them go to school for free .
He has given us health insurance and farmers are getting cows .
We had not seen a president like this before .
It seems to bring discomfort when you ask them about it .
My husband used to beat me .
The president told us to report such men to local authorities .
So I did and he was arrested .
From then ,  he stopped beating me .
The friend had also been a victim of domestic violence .
He later escaped because he was part of the racial killing .
The men at these gatherings would exercise some self-control .
He is a handsome ,  charming man ,  and has a firm character .
The women and children see him as a liberator .
Some may be faking it but many are being true .
The crowd has responded with wild cheering .
Does such cheering suggest that it is succeeding ?
The professor is the presidential advisor .
Today ,  he runs a campaign purely on public policy issues .
While the country has made progress ,  it can do even better .
His candidate promises to increase the agricultural sector budget by ten percent .
It promises to take primary schools up to village level
It is rare to find a campaign in Africa that is fought on issues .
Focus on public policy issues is a rule enforced by the Request For Proposal .
He does this to prevent them from going to traditional healers .
Her face was shining and her mouth opened with a joyful smile .
Domestic violence ended after reporting her husband to local authorities .
If she builds herself a house ,  the government would provide iron sheets .
This was an abnormal percentage in competitive democratic elections .
When he jumps security barriers to shake hands ,  they run wild .
It also mobilized it to kill their friends ,  in-laws ,  and relatives
Leaders can actively promote national unity and succeed .
His level of education may have given him an anti-societal political attitude .
She claims credit for the Railway Protection Force's achievements .
This is because it is the leader of the federation government .
Any slight deviation towards ethnicity and you are disqualified .
This is regarding ethnicity to the extent that it gets involved in the conflict .
The resolution was in agreement passed .
This is why you elected me as President of our Movement .
It could cost us if we lost an election .
Elections must be postponed to make better arrangements .
Future generations will never forgive us for this .
The issue is on all ballot boxes .
That would not happen with a free and fair election .
This should be reversed to have a free and fair election .
He has done this before and he is can do it again .
His political motive was to eliminate his rivals .
Businessmen and tycoons were bitter because of the lockdown .
Participants said they have already decided whom to vote .
We will vote for those who have worked for us .
The town is all dotted with yellow posters .
Other parties are there ,  but scarce so people do not know them .
People are poor and they often prefer to fill their bellies for the day .
When leaders come back for meetings ,  residents ask them for money .
The activities included civic education training ,  public debates on radio .
As a result of these tensions ,  people prefer to vote for their tribesmen .
Ethnic tensions are caused by competition for natural resources .
The government created counties and constituencies
The government hopes the two tribes get equal representation .
The observers say that this might be a recipe for severe divisions .
Tribe-based voting denies the electorate responsible leaders .
Poor leadership and service delivery are evident in the district .
We are still in the prison of malaria .
People die because they cannot access treatment .
They can get drugs from government health institutions .
People die every day ,  even when the disease is preventable .
Large bodies of stagnant water breeds mosquitoes .
These insects prefer feeding on human blood to an animal .
People only turn up when they know there are donations .
Activities help people to be active in the local decision-making processes .
The thirst for political office is a major cause of the tensions .
The government wanted to increase political offices for the two tribes .
The move might break the district apart instead of uniting it .
Spraying is better .
Resistance comes in when you interrupt the flow of spraying .
Spraying is effective in destroying malaria .
Cases then fell to thirty in September and twenty-five in October .
The chemicals appeared to have worked .
Eight hundred thousand houses have been sprayed in eight districts .
Only six million people were protected .
Many people refuse to have their homes sprayed .
Women should occupy at least thirty percent of all decision-making organs .
The youth and the disabled also have a representative in the parliament .
Recruits are drawn from all parts of the country and all tribal groups .
Public institutions advertise the available job opportunities through the commission .
The exams are prepared by consultants or university lecturers .
Qualifying candidates should get above seventy percent in the exams .
The same process is employed in the awarding of scholarships .
The selections are based on merit rather than political bond .
Lecturers were either murdered or run away from the country .
It was not enough to say never again to the racial killing .
Only the rule of law would help heal the bitter divisions .
They can use the tribal identity views to get political power .
Some politicians have indeed been accused of racial killing ideas .
Politicians develop ideas and work towards teaching them .
Bendiocarb will be rolled out after training health assistants .
Health officials tried to stop mosquitoes from developing resistance .
Malaria kills one million children around the world each year .
Results were promising as the disease was almost eliminated .
Massive sensitization on the prevention of malaria was done .
The findings give clues to potential weak points in the pathway .
Malaria parasite needs this molecule to succeed within a host organism .
The scientists will explore how the parasite is involved in metabolic control .
This is according to a report published in the journal .
Two hundred forty-seven million people were infected with malaria .
This ensures that recruitment into government employment is done on merit .
It was a belief that the rule of law would ensure peace and democracy
The men running things seem aware of the challenges ahead .
He says this makes it ineffective .
Even with the right people ,  operations will not be run efficiently .
We must have a fresh start .
The personal story of the artist gives an interesting dimension to his exhibition .
This job rendered him idle most of the time
He is showcasing his first solo exhibition .
Is the passion poured out in the combination of colors ?
A vehicle maintenance schedule helps to keep the vehicle in good condition .
Which services should be performed and how often ?
Vehicle service shops are in the business to make money .
How does one know the services and timing ?
Used vehicles should include a scheduled maintenance booklet .
Keep in mind the routine services listed .
Vehicles driven on bad roads need to be serviced more often .
How often should maintenance be performed ?
It may list a time frame that a particular service should be done .
It may show an oil change to be performed at five thousand miles .
Six months since the last service ,  the oil should be changed .
All types of routine maintenance services must be performed .
The different types of services vary from one vehicle to another .
The major services are usually performed at thirty thousand miles intervals .
The newer vehicle models require fewer services than previous models .
Many newer models do not require coolant change .
Some of the routine maintenance services include engine oil and filter change
When a vehicle is scheduled for service an oil change is done .
The service facility should perform a comprehensive inspection .
Tyres and brakes are safety wear items that don't need routine maintenance .
Tyres and brakes should be checked and replaced if necessary .
Wiper blades ,  alignments ,  and engine drive belts should be checked .
If brakes are neglected ,  the brake pads could cut into the brake rotors .
Worn-out brakes and tyres will hinder the vehicles ability to stop .
Worn-out tyres affect braking .
Up to twelve people were seriously injured .
Adopting new systems will be made the top of the agenda .
It will tell whether fans will fill the stadia to support them .
There appears to be an issue with the setting .
This is the reason for sexy women in their paintings .
This gives it a natural look .
This eases the struggle to translate the ideal nature of paintings
This led him into the harsh environment of art galleries .
What services should be performed on a particular vehicle ?
This booklet may be incorporated into the owners manual .
This would impose additional expenses on the repair .
These were due to financial aid from overseas .
There are divisions on the authority of the scripture .
These people were not armed .
I dont know why they were attacked .
Our investigations are still ongoing .
Our politicians take gifts to their constituents .
This constitutes the most dangerous form of corruption .
These practices feed off the social values of our people .
Ordinary people have little say over the political process .
The reformer would have to curtail elite privileges .
Being the loudest and articulate section of society .
They defend their privileges in the language of rights .
The reformer cannot rally ordinary people because they are semi-literate .
They do not speak on radio ,  television or write in newspapers .
If the opposition could organize ordinary people who suffer the disgrace .
We know what the opposition is against ,  not what it stands for .
The game-changing support comes from organized constituencies .
This has made many wonder which way the Anglican faith is taking .
The government should commit itself to investigating the accusations .
They removed their teeth and slaughtered cows .
This was since the government launched the disarmament program .
The disarmament exercise will become a human rights nightmare .
This shows that they are not aware of the hatred and pain .
Problems such as land tenure ,  poor healthcare ,  and education still exist .
Only if he can be made to drop to seventy percent in the west .
Unless he develops a game-changing strategy for all regions .
A change of guard but not a fundamental change in our politics .
These allow them to capture the masses .
They give them small gifts like paying fees and medical bills .
They attach great importance to expressions of personal kindness .
They have a limited voice in it .
They find sympathy in international human rights and humanitarian groups .
This comes with the claims for human rights by the elite .
The alternative of a real democratic agenda is rooted in the pursuit of social justice .
Begging for things such as fees and jobs around their shared problems .
That is why we are seeing a contest over the spoils of office .
That allows them to capture the masses .
No part of the country will be spared .
They also opened fire on civilians .
They were unarmed and peacefully moving with their cows .
There is a political crisis in the country that needs to be resolved .
It has soiled our freedom and we need to pick it up .
Hopefully ,  before it is too late .
Imagine three ministers going to parliament to issue three statements about the same subject ?
With those changes ,  policy and legislative levels were put in place .
The government made it mandatory for owners of public buildings to have metal detectors .
This paved the way for the government to legally monitor their communication .
Metal detectors are now everywhere in the city and are not subject to taxes .
This problem is a recurring theme in government .
Most of the Local Councils are suffering from a crisis of confidence .
How will these changes at the national and local levels be used in fighting terrorism ?
All possible measures are being done at the government level .
Popular attention is the perfect weapon against terror .
This way ,  communities can identify illegal settlers and suspected criminals .
The answer lies in popular care until we can use cameras and trackers .
Local Councils role in the community is policing back on the agenda
The launch was supposed to be a milestone .
The leader of the forum had to be elected by the people .
The forum is supposed to determine the relationships of political parties .
Many questioned if there was value for parties in the opposition .
Political parties have endured the problems the forum intended to stop .
The opposition has witnessed cruel abuse from the State .
Opposition party officials are denied time on state-owned media .
They believe it is incomplete and supports the ruling party .
There is a need to regulate political parties' status in the country legally .
Maybe after the elections ,  we shall be able to see some changes .
The party supposed to lead the forum adopts challenging positions .
Unfortunately ,  the leader was absent .
They consulted their lawyers and the public .
The invitation was sent a long time ago but had never been honored .
Government should address the wrongs around elections .
It would have to be a crisis .
Owners of public buildings should conduct body and car searches .
These policing roles include registering Local Council village residents .
Police denied them the right to demonstrate freely .
He opened political space for their participation .
The forum will address issues affecting the political parties .
They called journalists to escort them to meet control leaders .
He has changed his mind about it .
There was no clear reason for this .
He called these people impostors .
That accusation sounds weird .
The parties are paying the price for their oversight on critical issues .
The meeting did not yield much .
With hands above their heads ,  the new partys executives marched .
The occasion was the formal start of the new party .
Nobody should put down our commitment to democracy .
If anybody imposes dictatorship ,  they will fight him .
Provoking people will release their unseen energy .
Communities must demolish any barrier against democracy .
If anyone gives us a chance to fight a just war ,  that shall be up to him .
He warned against the quick branding of individuals as enemies .
Wrong people have to be exposed to avoid contaminating others .
The party should set up a code of conduct .
There is no serious case for wide-scale politics .
It offers the poor chance to improve their wellbeing .
A business person is also a manufacturer .
Free competition is a powerful force .
The meeting aimed to resolve all outstanding problems .
The meeting had found no merit in the accusations .
The cooperating parties need to take disagreements as lessons .
The power of state privileges can make such disagreements worse .
He pulled much bigger crowds whenever he went .
There is nothing wrong with it .
Much of the work that had to be done was done .
This time it's their turn to lead the union .
Both parties put up candidates for this election .
No one should mistake our commitment .
The enemies have to be fought ,  even with bullets .
Individuals were clear and eligible to hold posts within the party .
Let no one confuse you about this .
What might happen if they win and come to power ?
They are still on the opposition side .
He is already sitting down .
The thug has ordered a very cheap wine .
The man has not even ordered for reservation of that table .
He is fidgeting with his phone making those comedian calls .
You know what I am talking about .
He whispers loudly ,  pretending so that you can hear .
He talks too much .
These types of men are irritating .
Someone ,  please tell me what this is ?
I was overwhelmed by his rudeness .
The man is wondering where I have gone .
He is so stupid to think that I can talk to him again .
I have no regret leaving without having dinner .
It is a world of reality ,  not a little world created by this joker .
Grandma said ,   a mans strength in his character . 
Observers had doubts about a picture speaking a thousand words .
Women show their anger about violence against them .
The pictures show the pain women go through during armed conflicts .
The message is to stop violence against women and girls .
The thirty images composed the five sections of the exhibition .
It displayed the strategies developed to tackle this issue .
Are you indifferent about violence against women ?
Millions of women experience violence in their homes .
Violence against women and girls takes different forms .
It affects women in all stages of their lives .
Over two hundred thousand women have suffered from sexual violence .
They used the art of photography to communicate this mess .
The exhibition attacks violence against women .
Violence happens in homes ,  schools ,  workplaces ,  and communities .
Windshield wiper blades are essential driving safety components .
The windshield wipers have a sponge .
Some wiper blades do poor wiping when put to the test .
Others need replacement because they wear and tear .
If the windshield wipers are failing to wipe ,  replace them .
You should replace them every six months for optimum performance .
If unchanged ,  all windshield wiper blade materials will die of climate factors .
Exposure to sunlight and atmospheric pollution causes the rubber to age .
They may develop a permanent roughness .
This happens a lot on vehicles that are parked outside in the hot sun all day .
The sun bakes and hardens the rubber .
Heavy use can be hard on wiper blades .
As the blade loses its edge ,  water gets under it and remains on the glass .
The result is reduced visibility and poor wiping action .
Any blade thats doing a poor job of wiping needs to be replaced .
Any blade that is damaged should be replaced .
A simple check is to try the windshield washers on a dry day .
Check the windshield washer system too .
Do both people work together ?
Check that the spray hits the windshield where its supposed to .
The editor would be interested in getting some comments .
The law also criminalizes the act of printing and distributing rebellious content .
This strike has elevated negotiations to a higher level .
Guns alone cannot fight terrorism .
In which country was that wine manufactured ?
Their doubts are reduced by the powerful pictures that show clear messages .
Women are mistreated during armed conflicts in their communities .
An average of thirty-six women and girls are raped every day .
Violence or fear of violence may prevent women from negotiating safe sex .
It makes good visibility essential ,  especially during wet weather .
The rubber blade pulls the droplets of water away from the drivers field of vision .
If not ,  a nozzle may be plugged with dirt .
The law includes a penalty of five years in jail .
Over one thousand four hundred households were grouped in crowded tents .
As the registrar reached the judgment of the five judges ,  tension mounted .
It became clear that the court had ruled in favor of the petitioners .
They popped Champagne at the Daily Monitor ,  and the celebration started .
He made history today by winning a gold medal .
For five years ,  the men waited to have their case heard .
No statement of the summary of the two petitions had been prepared
The arrests are designed primarily to intimidate .
But it can disrupt an individuals work .
People dont want to associate because they fear getting into trouble .
How far will the sedition ruling go to restore confidence among journalists ?
The platform is now free for use without fear for those managing it .
But the sedition saga is still not quite over .
If anything touches media ,  they complain .
Journalists believe they can say anything .
Can the media criticize the President ?
The judges allocated two sentences for their justification .
We decline to grant the declaration on the bias as prayed .
They went ahead and appealed .
The sedition charge was the bigger of the two .
For any publication to be licensed ,  it needs to show cultural and economic values .
The Bill provides the minister with the power to appoint members of the Council .
The proposals have raised the anger of many journalists .
If the law is passed ,  it will still be challenged in court .
We hope that this will be the end of the story .
If you want something ,  it is better to ask for so many .
Members of Parliament will consult their constituencies to address concerns .
My experience in jail was wonderful .
He dismissed the question initially .
The office was now overflowing with reporters .
His live radio and was drawing a million listeners daily .
After the verdict ,  the man wanted him to come and close the Daily Monitor .
They paid thirty-three bail extensions before they were acquitted .
All prosecutions involving that law must have stayed indefinitely .
Five years in jail and a fifty thousand shillings fine for first-time offenders
This often took hours at a time before releasing them .
This is out of concern of the continued threats and arrests of journalists
That was moments after the registrar read out the outcome .
This charge can be applied to anyone suspected of raising discontent .
That is a voluntary network of organizations working to promote media freedom .
It has met other stakeholders ,  including media experts from Ghana .
The media should keep the focus on content that is of public interest .
That was a sign that he believes there should be a democracy .
That was enough to take him to jail for a week .
He was arrested .
Prisoners are denied newspapers and are allowed to keep one shirt .
Cells are small ,  toilets dont work ,  and they sleep on the ground .
He recalls that it was the first real shock for him .
I had to avoid looking at other men naked .
He appealed to the Supreme Court to be given bail .
He was against the government .
He spread the same message to other vendors .
He says they have never discussed the party budget .
The budget passed for this year is six billion shillings .
All budgets cater for administration and campaigns for the next elections .
It does not run any business that generates revenue for the party .
Some party officials inject personal money .
Some programs require huge amounts of resources .
This translates into twenty-one million two hundred thousand shillings a month .
This amount is like a drop in the ocean .
Each delegate received one hundred fifty thousand shillings .
Where did the money come from ?
They use the national budgetary allocations to their government offices to subsidize party work .
The money is gathered from the classified budget votes .
Money from the government in salaries and allowances is given to party teams .
He said that he is thirty-three years old .
He is rewarded and facilitated by the State like a minister .
The biggest problems we have are finances and organization .
He says without elaborating that in our case ,  we are not organized .
Local business people ,  politicians ,  and business entities fund the party .
If the party has financiers ,  why does it have an annual budget ?
However ,  he did not name the law .
Section nine of the political parties and Organizations Act requires political parties to declare their assets and liabilities .
Parties have business subsidiaries that generate revenue .
They are either cabinet ministers or hold other big government jobs .
They have strong business relationships with the government .
That is how they manage to survive .
Unity is all that we need .
Experts from friendly countries should be invited as advisers .
A group of the main opposition parties boycotted the electoral process .
The opposition strategy was to weaken the elections through low voter turnout .
They have failed to deliver a response to the regime .
International observers are the first to criticize strikes during an election .
A strike may spoil the fairness of an electoral process .
Besigye sees the pointlessness of basing strategic moves on grievance without a fight .
He has experienced his fair share of direct scares and threats .
The opposition has at least some political support from discontented nations .
A good number of his people have separated from him .
Yesterday ,  one of the prisoners escaped .
He promised to come back later .
He does this for survival to avoid involving himself in any fight .
He warned Otti not to receive any documents from government agents .
Most soldiers were trained to be brave .
If you are not a strong-hearted commander ,  you cannot move .
The soldiers should not be accepted without question .
Many people refused to discuss politics .
There were allegations of state torture against opposition members .
It discourages outside donor funding to support justice projects .
He vowed to kill a person daily and that he will remain in the base .
They are hearing radio programs where the betrayers are participating .
They prevent the emergence of free discussion and debate .
Journalists specialize in misquoting their interviewees and twisting stories .
How many people are simply playing safe ?
I listened to peasants accusing government officials ,  including the police .
I have listened to women whose husbands are in prison on genocide charges .
The post-genocide government built a system of local government .
I have not yet attended any of these meetings .
Some researchers work from rural areas in the country .
He waits for thirty kilograms of posho from the Office of the Prime Minister .
I wish we could be relocated to a new area .
They are now presumed dead as well .
The camp constitutes one thousand four hundred households .
The small tent is meant for an individual household .
All basic needs are not available in the camps .
We need a place where we can grow crops .
He survived after his son heard him wailing and came to his rescue .
He can no longer walk without support ,  and his right leg is broken .
Corruption has hindered the resettlement exercise .
Fears ,  tensions ,  and anger are building up ,  enhancing peace and quietness .
They believe that they will rise one day .
These women have protested their innocence and argued for their retrial .
This is on the condition that it is well researched and does not incite ethnic division .
He challenged anyone with information to the contrary to produce it .
This shows a shallow understanding of the situation on the ground .
Media rights groups would do a lot for their reputations .
They are determined to leave them and move on in a different direction .
Ethnic discrimination and downgrading will no longer be accepted as usual .
This will be central to its evolution towards becoming a normal country .
Their classes have only one teacher for every four hundred students .
This is because he longer has the strength to work .
The displaced people would be resettled no later than May 2010 .
Dealers in counterfeit goods will spend ten years in jail .
Researchers have found a way to make mouse hearts glow green each time they beat .
The operation was done by inserting a gene from a jellyfishs ability to light .
Researchers can turn the glowing feature on and off at will .
But this is more than just a party trick .
The reason for having such a mouse is so that features of beating hearts can be studied .
Calcium levels increase when heart cells contract and decrease when the cells relax .
Every time the heart beats ,  all the cells in the heart sequentially release calcium .
Changes in light are recorded through the use of a high-speed digital video camera .
Lighting hearts can be observed in adult mice .
This mess has been created by a highly centralized system .
Nobody should talk of independence .
Bring facts ,  show that they cheated ,  and we shall repeat the elections if need be .
But we are not going to tolerate independents .
Either you are inside or outside .
If it is difficult to come to terms with my pace ,  I will remove one of the tyres .
We had a break with about four kilometers to the end .
I improved by fifteen seconds when I repeated the same section .
He paraded a heap of dollars before the Ugandan media .
There are few people near the frozen circle but millions and millions of mosquitoes .
Mosquitoes that carry encephalitis seem to prefer bird blood hosts .
These mosquitoes bite people when they get the chance .
From one hundred feet away ,  mosquitoes can smell your scent .
Biting flies can smell their prey from three hundred feet away .
Mosquitoes respond to higher than average concentrations due to carbon dioxide .
They follow your scent upwind and can see you at a distance .
Mosquitoes breed in standing water .
Areas like rain gutters and tree holes are breeding sites .
City roads have become impassable due to floods .
There are fears that the forthcoming elections will be invalid .
The opposition ,  civil society ,  and other countries have voiced their fears .
The participants called on security forces to stop arresting opposition members .
Med Kaggwa disciplined people who block opposition leaders from speaking on radios .
The journalist only survived a technical knockout by fleeing to safety .
Your bail application will be put on hold .
He claimed the elections were manipulated .
If you had believed so ,  it is clear that you were wrong .
Women call for fair press coverage .
This allows researchers to observe these changes in living ,  beating hearts .
Mosquitoes locate blood hosts by scent ,  sight ,  and heat .
One female mosquito may have up to three thousand offspring .
These people are from registered political parties .
This happens when his opponents in the ring are journalists .
Think twice before you join any anti-government protests .
Participation in such a riot will expose you to charges of terrorism .
The court is unsure whether you will jump bail and skip court when due for trial .
Women often appear in the news for the wrong reasons .
The unfairness will not help in enabling women to achieve their full emancipation .
The private lives of women leaders have interfered .
The men are always portrayed as strong .
The workshop was to appeal to journalists to promote gender-responsive coverage .
They have changed their positions and status .
The question is ,  why do you remain in a system that cheated you ?
Their fallout with the National Resistance Movement was driven by personal suffering .
As long as they achieve their benefits ,  the national interest could go to hell .
He will handle them like a father treats a repentant stubborn child .
Genuine revolutions never take back the values they hold dear .
It is only for political reasons .
Once the political objectives have been achieved ,  there is no need to hold on to them .
The major point in the breakup was whether to participate in the forthcoming elections .
Otunnu says the opposition should insist on a free and fair election .
The opposition can decide to participate in an election that is neither free nor fair .
If they accept the terms of the race and participate in the elections .
If they lose and refuse to accept defeat ,  they will look like pretenders .
This will give them the skills and experience of running a national election .
In many situations ,  choices can be difficult .
Engaging in difficult cases requires hard negotiations .
This requires that we take care of the complexity of a situation .
It had little money ,  poor organization ,  and harassment .
Our country has grown a large private sector .
Unemployed youth who can be militants for change .
People are dying of simple diseases for lack of basic medical care .
These failures offer the opposition a powerful platform to rally for change .
The opposition can decide to participate in an election that is neither free nor fair .
The media gave them fair coverage .
Women suffer from the insensitive media much more than men .
They are being replaced by the vices they were meant to cure .
Why do you condemn the cheats but remain with them ?
Non-participation will stifle the voice of dispute in the electoral process .
A stupid man looks for a problem in every opportunity .
Our hospitals are collapsing under the weight of disrepair .
She won a gold medal during last year's sports competition .
She is a very fast runner .
The hospital held a run as a way of collecting money for the cancer institute .
All the witnesses for his case died in strange ways .
He got a job that he wasn't qualified for through his uncle .
His bail was set to a small amount .
A journalist had an interview with the justice about the situation .
She was only interested in the political party's fame .
The political party is planning a meeting to discuss the upcoming elections .
I need three million Uganda shillings to join that school .
She chose to do a degree in Computer Science without proper career guidance .
The school holds career guidance events to help its students pick the right careers .
The whole family enjoyed eating rice .
She has a very successful saloon .
Her restaurant is always filled with people .
She has set up her restaurant in a good place .
The building doesn't have a parking place for disabled people .
His grandmother gave him a Bible after his baptism .
The church gave all its new followers Bibles to start their journey with God .
The headmaster stole the money that had been collected for the new administration block .
The auditor advised the company to chase some employees .
The thieves missed a ten-year prison sentence .
The government set out plans to catch the corrupt officials in the public service .
Some village children stole their oranges yesterday .
A gang of teenage boys destroyed his farm late in the night .
There was a lot of vanilla in the market last season .
The farmer has already prepared for his losses .
My uncle found out he had intestinal cancer .
He is receiving food from the hospital even though he's isn't a patient .
He opened another branch to help with the overpopulation problem .
The trade sector faces a problem of high costs of producing goods .
He advised the government to increase the funding to the trade sector .
He studied music while at university .
Schools organize music ,  dance ,  and drama competitions to appreciate the different cultures in Uganda .
The pair of shoes she bought yesterday was already torn .
He sold high-quality sandals in his shop .
The company launched a new type of sofas last week .
The government announced a compulsory inspection of all pharmacies in Ntinda .
His money was stolen on leaving the bank by conmen .
The lecturer advised the students to take some time and make their idea better .
Uganda has not yet reached middle-income status .
The women walked barefoot for five kilometers to protest peacefully against domestic violence .
The school is holding a rugby match between senior one and two students .
Her two cousins went to work as house helps in Dubai .
There is an increase in the rate of organ trafficking in the Middle East .
A policeman beat up several journalists trying to cover the legislator's arrest .
He had to pay a fine for knocking on his car .
She attended the court ruling and wrote a report about it .
The East African Union focused on forming an army for the entire community .
The graduates chose to join the army as it was the only employment source .
She attended the meeting and made a detailed report about it .
The East African community started with three countries .
She had a hard time moving her car from Mombasa to Uganda .
The East African community has many different cultures .
She was buried at her husband's family home .
The three friends met at his mother's wedding .
The government officials had different stories about the missing money .
The two doctors had different opinions on his condition .
Kenya has a good railway system .
The men were building the office block slower than planned .
She was praised for doing her work faster than the rest of the staff .
He traveled to Rwanda to report the story .
Many legislators attended his burial to respect his last wish .
She was remembered as a good leader .
They have not yet received the payment promised to them after displacing them .
She was evicted from her home as it was in the new road's way .
The whole village was out of food because of the famine .
The villagers learned to ignore the hippopotamus and carry on with their fishing .
Sometimes elephants' waste is used as manure in the people's gardens .
Some trees are used for making paper .
Kampala Capital City Authority has given farmers disease-resistant maize seedlings .
Market vendors get Irish potatoes from Kabale .
The landlady chased him from her house for violating noise regulations .
The court ordered the two men to leave the house .
The president held a moment of silence for the legislator during his address .
His family and friends held a burial mass for him at the family's cathedral .
Fifty women were recognized for their contributions to the country last Monday .
The court dismissed all the testimonies against the kidnapper .
The police had a detailed report about the kidnap .
They hold services at Rubaga Cathedral every Sunday .
Nsambya hospital opened a diabetes clinic for young children .
The cosmetics industry makes hair products .
Eight women formed a foundation to fight for women's rights in workplaces .
Some legislators were against the foundations set up to help women .
Each East African country has a representative in the East African Legislative Assembly .
Her husband died and she was left to care for their seven children .
The company ensured both women and men received the same salary .
Uganda has a female Vice President .
During her days as the Inspectorate of Government ,  many women were employed in the office .
She got a loan from the bank to start her business .
The girls were encouraged to create savings accounts while at university .
The government is determined to fight hunger and famine .
I made more friends last year .
She set off to travel across North Africa .
The tourists ran through Algeria and Libya and stopped in Egypt to visit the pyramids .
The sailors turned and headed east following the River Nile to East Africa .
The animals ran through the desert and the national park .
More young people joined the team in Uganda .
The group ran into Kenya and headed for its coast and the city of Mombasa .
The tourists sat on the beach and ate coconut rice with fish .
Let us take the unity torch to mountain Kilimanjaro in Tanzania .
He was very tired .
My grandmother has passed away after a short illness .
The runners stopped the race .
It would be good to add give some incentives to the policemen .
You can carry the torch to mountain Kilimanjaro .
Let us light a flame for African unity .
The group of runners headed into southern Africa .
People cheered the runners saying ,  "You are our heroes . "
The rest of my friends are going to the next country .
We have run from the farthest point in southern Africa to North Africa .
We are in the southern region of the country again .
Crowds gathered at the finishing point ,  cheering to welcome the tired runners .
He made it to the finishing line .
Who won the race ?
The book had ten paragraphs only .
A boy was hiding in the bush .
He had a twin sister .
When their mother and father died ,  they went to stay with their uncle .
She treated the boys badly .
The children were given thin porridge only once a day for food .
He ran away from home because of a disagreement with his wife .
She found a cave to live in .
The cannibals were living in the hills .
He made a strong door to cover the entrance .
He warned his sister to stay in the cave while he went out hunting .
Cannibals love the smell of cooking meat .
Each evening he brought meat at home .
He asked her to open the cave .
Take your time to swallow your food properly .
The door had two holes in it .
He found it very boring to stay in the cave all day .
One day ,  when her brother had gone ,  she went out to explore .
She found a stream to play in ,  and some trees to climb .
She felt free and happy .
Perhaps ,  she thought there are no criminals .
Uncle said that there were cannibals just to frighten us .
The next day she felt bold enough to make a fire to warm herself .
She made a fire inside the cave with the door firmly shut .
I am sure it will not matter if I put a little meat on the fire .
It will be so good to have a cooked meal .
Her brother sang for her .
My dress has two holes .
She opened the door and let him in .
I dried the meat in the sun outside the cave .
He and the sister sat down to enjoy the meal together .
The next day ,  she made a fire and cooked meat again .
The voice did not sound like her brother's .
She refused to fetch water .
You are not my brother .
Your voice is not like his .
She felt safe in the cave .
He sings on the streets .
We are related by blood .
The patients must swallow their medicine on time .
She has a good voice .
He has a hairy body .
He grabbed him before he could run away .
He had time to pick up some ashes from the fire .
He managed to trap a hive full of bees .
He carried the food over his shoulder .
When he came to the house ,  he found the door open .
Ashes were pointing the way into the woods .
He followed the ash along the path until he saw a fire in the distance .
He hurt his leg .
I need some water .
He promised not to touch my bag .
He put the bag carefully in his hut .
She climbed the tree to pick mangoes .
My bag was stolen .
Let us wait and see what will happen .
His son and daughter came with him .
She has a beautiful bag .
The bees stung her hand .
He told his son to help her .
Today's weather is the same as that of yesterday .
He has entered the house .
He opened the bag himself .
The angry bees swarmed out and stung his head ,  nose ,  and eyes .
He cried out in pain .
His head stuck fast in the mud .
The piece of wood caught fire .
There is a beehive in the forest .
He ate delicious honey from the hive .
Storybooks are good for children .
Our lectures have not yet started .
The robbers who have been threatening the villagers have been arrested .
My neighbor was arrested yesterday .
Thieves beat him to death and stole his motorcycle .
Some politicians make promises to voters but after elections ,  they never visit the constituents .
Some politicians do not care about the problems affecting their constituencies .
He suggests that the new team should come from different backgrounds for diversity .
Circumcision is a very important tradition in some cultures .
She was involved in a car accident last Christmas .
The police and the army are working together to improve security in the country .
Many vendors are in sorrow after their property was destroyed during the attack .
The person responsible for the attack on the locals has been arrested .
The suspect is being protected by top officials .
She forged a doctor's note to dodge work yesterday .
The demand for local organic products is low on the market .
The locals were screaming with excitement when their team won the match .
My goal for this new year is to lose weight .
She attended the new year's party at my place .
Some people threw parties at their homes with lots of food and drinks .
He was badly hurt during the fight .
The fans were angry that she made them wait for over six hours .
Some footballers use their earnings to help those in need within their communities .
He has donated ten million Ugandan shillings to that orphanage .
He hopes that the team will make it to the finals .
Playing helps children to develop healthy brains .
Parents are encouraged to interact with their children for bonding .
The cost of electricity has increased .
That company is spending a lot of money on electricity .
The increase in the price of cement is caused by the high production cost .
The school has the best football team in the whole country .
Their team has won the interschool finals for the past two years .
The players are training ahead of the competition this Friday .
The footballers in this year's league are very talented .
The ceremony was postponed because the organizers could not agree on a venue .
Some children are abandoned by their parents because they are lame .
The company donated food and clothes to the home for the disabled .
They lost the match yesterday .
Our school football team has qualified for the national interschool competition .
The price of sugar has increased to four thousand Ugandan shillings .
There are few sugarcane farmers in the country .
He will share the meeting minutes with us .
He is retiring from professional running .
The team is recruiting new footballers .
A new committee has been appointed to supervise the project .
The lecturers have not received their salaries for three months .
The company has no money to pay debts .
The school will remain closed .
He already knew that he had lost the election to his opponent .
He has been sentenced to ten years in prison for robbery .
His trial will be held in two weeks .
They are not allowed beyond the gate .
Some locals have planned to riot if he is not released .
He was arrested for attacking his neighbors with a panga on their land .
The elevator doors refused to open because there was no power .
Some of the locals were panicking .
They failed to put out the fire on their own .
The city is very peaceful and organized .
The city has good roads and beautiful buildings .
He showed us all the nice hotels around the city .
The government has changed some sections of the constitution .
The government is constructing a new road in our district .
There is a high crime rate in the slum areas of Kampala .
We went to Mecca last year .
There has been a decrease in theft cases in that area .
The locals reported the people they suspected to be robbing them to the police .
Most offices have two security guards .
We celebrated Christmas day last week .
We toured some of the old buildings in the country .
She is contesting for the post of district chairperson .
He won the mayoral election with more votes than any other candidate .
She came second in the elections for district speaker .
She was one of the candidates for the post of village chairperson .
The new powerhouse will reduce load shedding in the country .
The facility distributes electricity to schools and hospitals in the area .
She pays a lot of taxes because she owns several businesses in the city .
Every Ugandan who earns a monthly salary is required to pay tax to the government .
She did not have the political party's support in the elections .
The owner of that company only hires his relatives .
The country cant be run by one family .
There are many rules followed when filing a case against someone in court .
They didn't have to collect our signatures .
All the traders who were operating without licenses were arrested .
The foreigners who operate businesses without licenses should be sent back to their countries .
He left the ruling party and joined the opposition .
She is the wife of one of Uganda's top opposition leaders .
She was born sixty-two years ago to a very poor family .
The city has so many police officers deployed on its streets .
Many businesses are prospering because of the country's security .
They must protect the locals from criminals .
The world cannot judge their country for protecting its citizens .
There were wars in the country which caused the death of many locals .
The people will vote on their phones which is unfair .
The winning candidate has to have more people standing behind him .
As children grow ,  they begin to ask complicated questions .
Children should be taught the value of saving from a young age .
He was a guest speaker on the radio station this morning .
She scored the highest points in the game yesterday .
Their school has been selected to represent our region in the national soccer finals .
He was accused of oppressing the locals .
You cannot drag someone to court without proper evidence .
We have five acres of farmland for growing rice .
Some farmers are selling their rice locally and internationally .
She is making a lot of money from her poultry business .
There have been many accidents along that road .
Some potholes are so deep that they cause unexpected flat tyres .
The organization has not improved the roads .
The road has to be completed within six months .
Children should be allowed to play outside to strengthen their bodies .
The children are very friendly with each other .
That organization represents all its poor clients free of charge in court .
The poor people are usually oppressed because they cannot afford to hire lawyers .
The government pledged to support the kingdom by building a new palace .
He was the most important guest at the ceremony .
The police are investing the recent death of some locals .
The leaders are looking for a solution to the recent conflicts in the community .
Farmers harvested little food because most of their crops dried up in the drought .
During his speech about human rights ,  the president condemned child abuse .
Some Ugandans cannot access good hospitals for treatment .
Nursery schools play an important role in teaching children how to behave in society .
Children's brains are shaped during their first five years therefore ,  they need nursery schools .
The leaders are happy with the new project .
Sometimes ,  there are riots after the elections to protest the results .
Businesses lost their goods which were coming in from the neighboring countries .
We are trying to find new ways of reaching our target market .
Despite being young ,  she is pursuing her dream with passion .
He is supported by very famous people because of his talent .
Some locals lost their land to the construction of the new road .
We lost most of our property in the floods .
They request the government to compensate them for the property they lost .
The oil mined can be processed into fuel for vehicles .
There has been pollution of the land and poisoning of animals from oil waste .
Oil waste has poisons that damage the soil and kill crops .
The plant is poisonous and can lead to death if eaten .
Many farmers lost their cattle to poisoning .
The animals are poisoned upon eating the plant .
He was killed with a panga .
The murderers should be arrested and charged .
During last year's celebrations ,  the president encouraged everyone to stand up for their rights .
His wife is an engineer .
She is interested in standing for district chairperson .
She is well qualified for the position .
Some women are beaten by their husbands .
Women are expected to take care of the home and raise the children .
Women and men should have equal opportunities and rights in the community .
He won the election for political party president .
His win was withdrawn because the elections were rigged .
Some locals want him removed from the position of mayor .
The opposition party does not have enough money to oppose the elections .
He confirmed that the court finds her guilty of murder .
Malaria in pregnant women can cause miscarriages .
Pregnant women should sleep under mosquito nets and get treatment when they're sick .
Dried seeds last longer that's why most customers prefer them .
The company sells high-quality iron sheets .
Some people are being mistreated and oppressed in this country .
The army attacked and killed many innocent locals last month .
Some government officials have been accused of taking bribes .
There have been many cases of fraud in that organization .
He is a very strong and capable leader .
Some candidates withdrew from the presidential race to support him .
By the end of the campaigns ,  he had lost all hope of winning the election .
We evaluate his performance in the campaigns .
The government should allocate more money for the anti-corruption task force .
The organization does not have money to support its employees in their duties .
The government has released funds for the construction of a new power plant .
The two companies have partnered to work together on the new project .
The new power station will generate a lot of electricity for the country .
The airport stopped working ten years ago .
The remains of the aeroplane from the accident were buried .
The government does not have money to rebuild the airport .
The police have refused to leave his home .
He is the top opposition leader in the country .
The court ordered the police officers to withdraw back to their barracks .
Many police officers were surrounding his home this morning .
Many locals have started putting up small businesses to support their families .
Constructing good roads in the country eases the movement of tourists around the country .
He traveled to the neighboring country for the ceremony .
Some of the people living in villages cannot afford basic needs like food .
We save our money throughout the year and can only receive it in December .
Some locals have set up savings groups within themselves because banks are far .
He was presented in front of the judge this afternoon .
I spent six hours watching what was going on in the court .
He gave us the details of his trip .
Most traders prefer to buy their goods from abroad .
The country has a huge debt to pay .
Tourism is one of the fastest-growing sectors in the country .
He changed his mind about retiring from politics .
Some locals nominated him for the position of village chairperson .
He did not keep his promise to his voters .
He was summoned to court because of the attacks his team made on the locals .
He could not attend the meeting because he is sick .
Some drunkards lose their tempers and beat their wives at home .
Some youth spend most of their time and money on alcohol .
The organization will help victims of abusive marriages to get counseling .
The police fired bullets to scare the rioters .
Locals should build fifty feet from the road to facilitate the road reserve .
Some police officers mercilessly beat anyone they find moving on the streets at night .
He did not show up at the court .
He sent representatives to the meeting because he was busy .
The bank is giving free airtime to any customer who opens a new account .
Customers can send and receive money directly through their phones .
The country welcomes new businesses because they bring in money through taxes .
She opened up another poultry shop in the neighboring country .
The organization has very few customers .
Very few Ugandans can afford to save money for the future .
My mother was among those who died in the attack last year .
There was a lot of bloodshed during the riot .
The election was postponed because some of the candidates were sick .
The constitution instructs that all elections should be free and fair .
The elections will be held on Friday .
No journalist is allowed to report on the case .
Journalists should strictly follow the rules of the Court .
Many people lost their loved ones in the attack last month .
There were bullets fired all over the place .
He arrived at the airport this morning .
He encouraged more people to start small businesses to sustain themselves .
The president recommended commercial farming as one of the best businesses .
Uganda is a good country for one to start a business .
Some industries sell their products abroad ,  instead of selling to the locals .
He is a very rich man .
He has never been found ever since he disappeared from his shop two months ago .
There are many unmarked graves in that area .
The organization is installing water pipes around the village .
My little sister was kidnapped from school yesterday .
There is no evidence that he beat his wife .
The witness said that she saw him shoot the deceased last week .
The guidelines for the campaigns have not been released .
She was criticized for making losses in the company .
Some traders are operating their businesses without licenses .
The deadline for the registration of businesses has been extended by a month .
Most electronics shops in the city are owned by Indians .
All foreigners need licenses to operate businesses in this country .
The organization has details of all registered businesses in the country .
The trial has been postponed to next month .
He shot her in the head .
His murder case is too big to be handled by our village court .
The football match was postponed because of the heavy rain .
He is nearing the end of his speech .
I was part of the Kabaka's run last year .
There were many participants in the race .
People who do not exercise are lazier than those who do .
Exercise is good as it strengthens the body to fight diseases like diabetes .
Nursery schools train children on how to behave in primary school .
Nursery schools allow children to play with their peers and build their confidence .
Nursery schools and daycares provide an environment for children to explore without parents' guidance .
He did not win the award because he lost in the final match .
He was the best player this season .
He scored the winning goal for his team .
He has been struggling to pay school fees for his children .
He was fired from four different jobs in just six months .
He has been making more money from his business .
Some vendors do not have any records about their business at all .
She supplies chicken to three restaurants in the area .
He narrated the details from the ceremony .
Fewer tourists are coming into the country because of the rebel attack .
The hotel lost a lot of money because the guests did not show up .
The country receives more tourists in December .
She lost her two children in the attack .
The two leaders should have discussed their issues with each other instead of fighting .
Everybody wants to pray from the new church .
The priest encouraged the church to maintain peace with its neighbors .
Forgiving those who wrong you helps you to heal from the pain .
Some of the dead bodies were too burnt to be identified .
She was buried in her father's village .
Some locals do not obey the government laws .
He was voted best footballer of the year .
The winner of the dancing competition received a brand new car .
She complained that her brother receives more attention and gifts from their parents .
According to him ,  some fathers neglect their responsibilities towards their children .
She commented about the poor performance of the students during the meeting .
Some of those who were arrested are innocent .
Some prisoners are being mistreated in jail .
The attackers broke her hand and leg .
My father was killed in the attack .
She spoke with one of the farmers who lost their crops in the flood .
That family is suffering from poverty as they cannot even afford food .
He was arrested for disobeying the president's orders .
The children would not have fought if they had both got the same presents .
The team of soldiers was separated into four .
He has hired more security guards for his home .
In our company ,  if you are caught receiving a bribe ,  you are fired immediately .
Some government officials ask for money from clients before working on them .
The government has discovered that the locals started the fight with the police .
He has the details about how the campaigns are running in some districts .
The report she submitted about the life of the locals was a total lie .
The army attacked our village and burnt our farms .
The army continues to attack the locals even if they are innocent .
My brother is one of the officers who retired this year .
Some retired police officers join rebel groups to make quick money .
Some farmers do not have enough money to support their farms .
Some banks charge high interest rates on loans .
The farmers can now access most services of the bank on their phones .
We have a football match on Saturday .
The team needs money to support them during the competitions .
My uncle topped up my school fees .
Your father is doing the best he can to make you happy .
My mother is a retired primary school teacher .
How much balance did you remain with after the shopping ?
Her voice was low .
He explained to his son about his financial situation .
She is expecting her pension very soon .
Her presence did not make any difference .
Banana wilt destroyed at least three-quarters of the plantations .
She shook her head in disagreement .
Where are you going to get that much money ?
Your father is always smart .
His name has two different spellings .
Ministry of Agriculture helps farmers in different ways .
There was an outbreak of Ebola in the country .
What are some of the diseases that affect banana plantations ?
He got a loan of five million shillings .
When do you need the money ?
Students will not be allowed to register unless they have paid full tuition .
What is the date today ?
I want you to pay my money by Friday this week .
I wish you had told me about your visit earlier .
Money is so scarce ,  especially during this pandemic season .
The banana plantation owners in the Masaka district have a savings and credit cooperative organization .
He has unlimited credit .
Some financial institutions lend to their customers at high rates .
Why are you over staring at me ?
He makes fun of his friend .
Everyone has their problems to solve .
Why are you thanking me ?
There is no hope of him getting that money in four days .
He wears a rosary on his neck every day .
She is always wearing her necklace .
The prince married a virgin girl .
God is full of grace .
Why were the women murmuring ?
The garden was covered with fertilizers .
My grandmother requested me to stay a little longer at her place .
I do not want to be late for work .
He fastened his towel around the waist and headed to the bathroom .
Does she know how to drive ?
Some taxi drivers in Uganda do not respect traffic guidelines .
The man has a very bushy beard .
His shirt collar edges were dirty .
The traffic officers in Uganda no longer put on a white uniform .
What is the role of traffic officers on the road ?
My father hired a personal driver .
I prefer traveling by minibus to a taxi .
Do we need traffic officers on the road ?
The digital clock on your dashboard is flashing .
He stepped on the brake pedal to let the taxi guy into the lane .
Indisciplined drivers cause accidents on the road .
You look like you did not sleep at all .
After the compliment ,  he just shook his head and smiled .
She did not sleep last night because she had a lot of work to do .
Problems never end ,  is it true ?
The company has a blue-white logo .
What is the motto of your school ?
A single guy like you should not have problems .
He is married with a five year old daughter .
Being unmarried does not mean that he does not have any responsibilities .
How is your grandmother ?
For how long have you been friends ?
He does not look fine .
The twins are going for their last semester at the university .
By Friday ,  all the bills will be paid .
He asked me to lend him five million Ugandan shillings only .
I just paid my daughters school fees .
That nursery school is actually expensive .
I wonder how much my parents have spent on my education till university .
The two graduated in the same year .
He is a sales executive at a local insurance firm .
She is planning to quit her job .
Many people do not have much money to spare .
When will the next school term begin ?
He is your colleague at work .
He runs an underground money lending business .
He is not as bad as the other money lenders around town .
Some people get fatal accidents because of failing to pay their debts in time .
We have never had anything bad about him .
There is a certain procedure to follow when borrowing money from the bank .
Where do you work from ?
We no longer have any problem with her .
Her in-laws are dangerous people .
The tenant was jailed for failing to pay his five months rent .
He believes that he will get the money next month .
Describe a lifeless face to you .
The deceased was placed in a white coffin .
The twins were just two years old when she died .
Please help her if you can .
At what time does the bank close ?
Let me go see him before the boss gets here .
I kept thinking about her yesterday .
She fears her boss .
Do not forget the boss wants the field report .
Shut the door to the small office .
He saved most of his work on the flash disk .
His office is at the end of the corridor .
Someone is knocking at the door .
His voice was loud enough for everyone to hear .
My bedroom door has a silver handle .
He wiped his hands on the sides of his trousers .
Turn the door handle with both hands .
She did not fall into their trap .
Why do you only remember me in hard times ?
How can such a small man have so much power ?
Is it ok if I borrow your shoes ?
At what rate did you attain the loan ?
The economy in the country is at its downfall .
He got a loan at a relatively fair rate .
The light in his office is dim .
You need to have a calculator while doing a math exam .
Let us see who is better at dancing .
He has only five thousand shillings in his pocket .
I think in three months ,  my business will be established .
It's been six months ever since they got married .
How do you run your business ?
The nurse put her hands around my neck to feel my body temperature .
Her rosary is green in color .
I will take the children to school .
I wonder why he left the desk so quickly .
The broom is kept in the corner of the room .
She has long beautiful fingers .
It is like he knew you were coming .
He took out five bundles of fifty thousand notes from his bag .
Do you know how to use the counting machine ?
All children were silent in the classroom .
Cassette tapes are no longer on market .
He handed to you a grey box package .
It is a pleasure doing business with you .
There is a bank in the trading center .
My father records down everything in his notebook .
What did he write in the letter ?
He opened his drawer to pick a pen .
He pulled out a receipt book and wrote out a receipt for me .
The money is in my bank account .
She was talking to her father on phone .
What is the time now ?
My friend can speak both Luganda and English .
Her brother dropped out of school .
After the phone call ,  she hangs up .
The ladies gave birth on the same day .
He picked her along the road .
His money was piled in bundles of a hundred thousand shillings .
What pleases you ?
He asked me to stay .
She has pimples on her face .
I felt so lonely during the night .
When she smiles ,  dimples appear on her cheeks .
I look forward to my wedding day .
His body is so weak .
The baby has soft hands .
She laughed out loud as he tickled her .
The room was warm .
That same night he traveled back to his family .
Sickles are used in reaping cereal crops at harvest time .
Why did you push him away ?
The dog chased the thief .
Some employees were denied pay .
How could she betray her sister ?
He rushed in order to catch up with the train .
I pray before going to bed .
She is afraid of the dark .
He has very good handwriting .
The pen was given to her as a gift .
You should write down your dreams somewhere .
I bought a new notebook .
I wonder how I will achieve my dreams .
How did you know that she is the right woman for you ?
He wants to be successful in life .
What is your definition of a successful man ?
He lied that his father was a minister .
She does not want to work for anyone again .
Some dreams need money to be obtained .
Most women want men with money .
He shared all his ambitions with his wife .
He has a small button phone .
She is usually up-country on official duty .
My brother rents a two-roomed self-contained house .
Yesterday evening ,  he was sitting at the neighbor's verandah .
The wall has cracks .
He has a very beautiful living room .
The wooden chair got broken .
He was wearing a maroon shirt and black trousers .
The flower vase is empty .
We have family pictures in the living room .
His friend gave him black trendy jeans .
The nail in the wall pierced him .
The keys are in my jacket .
The sandals she left at the doorstep outside were stolen .
He went to a cheap bar to drink .
There is a lot of entertainment on the different television channels .
The shelves of the shop were empty .
The light source was a blue bulb .
How often do you visit a massage parlor ?
The chair is too small for her .
What is the purpose of today's meeting ?
My sister wanted to tell me something in private .
The table was made out of wood .
What worries you most ?
Is everything ok with you ?
He feels propelled to tell her the truth .
Some people have successfully achieved their dreams .
Do the right things at the right time .
Whenever I think about her ,  I smile .
Prove that you're innocent of the crime .
He wanted to prove his love for her but all in vain .
What was written on the piece of paper ?
My grandmother does not know how to read .
She folded the paper and threw it in the dust bin .
This book was written a year ago .
She believes in her husband .
Some couples are very romantic during courtship .
I had a wonderful evening .
Mother warned her never to come home late again .
Short distances are walkable .
He put his hand on her shoulder .
When she reached the door she knocked so that someone could open it .
He wished her a good night .
He owns a motorcycle .
Why is it so difficult for people to tell the truth ?
Youths are motivated to pursue their dreams .
The night is fairly peaceful .
Tomorrow is a Friday .
He met his friend in the afternoon .
He will find work for you .
It's a ten minutes drive from here to town .
He stays with his father .
The window has a lot of dust on it .
He did not greet me .
As soon as the car entered ,  she closed the gate .
He looked through the window to see who was calling him .
The boy does not have friends .
He greeted me as soon as he reached for the door .
We shook hands with him .
Tell me about some of the challenges you are facing at school .
Do you know that man ?
She hopes to get a new job very soon .
The house was disorganized .
His breath changed suddenly .
The thieves stole his television set .
Did you forgive her ?
Guess who is throwing a party tonight ?
What was he chewing ?
Just tell me the truth .
I am not in a guessing mood .
Guess who bought me the new pair of shoes .
He lost interest in the conversation .
He placed his feet on the table .
He stood up from the chair and left the seat for the pregnant woman .
What has excited you so much today ?
I imagine living in a big mansion when I grow up .
She had not included rice on the shopping list .
He took it as a privilege to have dined with the rich people in the city .
She is an extraordinary woman .
She did not have a proper outfit for the occasion .
He always has a way out .
Avoid worrying about things you cannot change .
You will dress up from my room .
My old man wears suits .
What will you do over the weekend ?
He will find a nice suit for you .
You have to get ready for the journey .
At what time will the function start ?
Take a shower and change those clothes .
You have to do what the doctor says .
He does not have shoes .
She dressed up in a black dress .
Are you ready to go ?
Will you help me clean this house tomorrow ?
The weather outside is cool .
How does the chessboard look like ?
She was shamelessly undressing in public .
He left the apartment at ten o'clock .
The askari refused to open the gate for him .
Almost every guest at the dinner party had a car .
The prime minister is a very important person in the country .
I like that dark blue dress .
His estate is very big .
About three large gardens make up the front of the house .
There are two entrances at the venue .
There are nice drawings at the art gallery .
The pillars support the building .
He knows how to make statues .
I admired all the hangings on the walls .
The portrait of his daughter was created from multi-colored glass .
What is Uganda's emblem ?
He keeps the utensils in the glass cupboard .
I noticed the water fountain in the middle of the room .
What did he use to come up with the paintings ?
All people were looking at the preacher .
I could not leave the little girl alone at home .
Some people believe by seeing .
The rich man's possessions were featured in the national newspapers .
The stars are brightly shining in the sky .
Avocado is oval .
The surface of the stone is smooth .
The sunlight rays dry our clothes .
Some diseases are hereditary .
The diamond earrings were worth the cost .
Convert all the dollars to shillings .
He sleeps with his Bible under the pillow .
Look around to see if anyone is watching you .
She is a rich man's daughter .
People left the venue through various exits .
Mother ironed father's pair of trousers .
I used to enjoy watching Nigerian movies .
What was the root cause of rapid deaths in the village ?
He said witchcraft cannot affect you unless you believe in it .
Through prayer ,  we can cast out demons .
God hears our prayers .
What was written in today's newspapers ?
The schoolboy was carrying a heavy bag .
We lost interest in the party .
I will return your fathers suit tomorrow .
She suddenly left before the party ended .
He walked successfully past all three exits .
What is the right thing to do ?
The two heavily-bodied men are holding guns .
Footballers use their legs to kick the ball .
The bridegroom was wearing a white coat .
She goes to witch doctors .
Why did you embarrass her in front of the guests ?
Who did you come with ?
I do not know that man .
He denied the boys food .
The sound of sirens is scary .
The luggage was dumped into the back of a double cabin vehicle .
Why do you lend things that are not yours ?
What is your dream ?
The vehicle that knocked him down was at a very high speed .
You were right ,  I do not stay with my parents .
The vehicle had a mechanic break down .
He felt physical pain in his body after the fall .
She slept in a three-walled unpainted cubicle .
He slammed the door behind him .
Depression sets in as you try to deal with reality .
Living in self-denial is not good .
It is a matter of time ,  if something is to be yours ,  it will be .
He put off his coat and placed it on the bench .
He walks while pocketing .
Very many people fear witchcraft .
Does it matter anyway ?
He was locked in a prison cell .
We live in a real world .
It feels good to be loved .
The thunderstruck the tree that was in the compound .
I participate in sports to keep my body in shape .
We have two dogs at home .
What is your favorite television show ?
She has a good English name
How many people stay in that house ?
His son is in the middle class .
The shirt has no sleeves .
I want to get rich .
Tomorrow is her day off from work .
He found the kids playing on the banana plantation .
Grasshoppers are common during the rainy season in November .
The banana leaves dried up .
She bought some sweets for the twins .
We cook grasshoppers after plucking off their legs and wings .
The sweets were of different colors .
Polythene bags were banned because they are a threat to the environment .
I felt the sticky honey sweetness fill my mouth .
Strangers ran past my house last night .
We want to tell him the news quickly .
Mother did not want us to play with her .
That child has bad manners .
Aunt came from Kampala district .
Grasshoppers have wings and legs .
The wind was blowing the banana leaves from side to side .
She brought us some sweets .
He accidentally dropped the saucepan he was holding .
We have been good friends despite mummys restriction .
Why did you throw away the leftovers ?
We are on the winning side .
He was missing two lower teeth which left a gap .
What has made you laugh ?
Ripe bananas are sweet .
Babies' teeth grow fast .
His dance strokes made us laugh even more .
The banana plantation is on five hectares of land .
He no longer owns that piece of land .
My grandfather is a very old man .
He planted oranges and pawpaw trees at the side of his plantation .
He is a lecturer at one of the best universities in the country .
The organization wanted a new Board of Directors .
The company merged the sales department with the marketing department .
Her mother started a poultry farm last year .
His pigs were infected with the swine flu .
He convinced his mother to buy a new house .
The government banned the use of polythene bags .
The village has been infected with Ebola .
The banana plantation owners formed an association yesterday .
The new elect-leaders are ready for the swear-in ceremony .
The two organizations signed an agreement to settle their quarrel .
The company created a new position in the management department .
They attended a party in the middle of the town .
My father has a debt of five million Uganda shillings .
The manager organized a meeting with the new investors .
The police arrested the gang of thieves at midday .
The two children escaped from the refugee camp last Thursday .
The police started investigating the prisoner's escape yesterday .
The price of sugar increased to seven thousand Uganda shillings last month .
My father owns a sugar mill in the village .
The procurement process has several steps involved in it .
The legislators signed an income tax bill yesterday .
He has always been a leader from childhood .
His family saw him as a dictator .
She didn't support any political party .
The pupils made research about that political party .
The class teacher scared his students .
He was paid some money to lie about the kidnapping case .
There is an increase in the number of cholera infections among the children living in slums .
She died from the Human Immunodeficiency Virus because of no access to treatment .
The school published his report today .
He ate beef suspected to have tapeworms .
He works in a gold mine .
The national football team has many fans .
The football matches for this season will be aired on local television .
She joined the Kiswahili class yesterday
The two travelers didn't understand the language the villagers spoke .
Her brother is planning to start a mushroom farm in Jinja .
The policemen told the people to stand some inches away from each other .
The Local Council One chairperson for Kamuli held a meeting with some sugarcane farmers .
The judge asked for further investigations of the murder case .
He appeared before the disciplinary committee last evening .
The graduates complained about the many old officials in public service offices .
His father retired from the ministry last Friday .
My mother was promoted to the Chief Executive Officer of the organization .
His first task was to hire new employees to replace the old ones .
The restaurant has many pending food orders due to lack of enough workers .
The legislator's trial is scheduled for next week .
The General Court Martial has only six people on its panel .
His grandparents haven't received the money from the senior citizens' grant .
The legislators felt sorry for the people who were cheated out of the grant .
He wrote a report about the benefits of the new type of tomatoes .
People in villages rarely accept new technologies .
The government plans to give mosquito nets to the entire population of the country .
Rural areas rarely have ways to fight disease outbreaks .
Her brother received a reward from the president for his performance .
He didn't break any rules when he saved the street children .
He was the head of the three schools .
He encouraged the building of more factories in the entire region .
He has been the Local Council One chairperson for a long time .
The Local Council helps to handle local cases .
There was a blood donation tent at the university for an entire month .
The university has few qualified lecturers .
Their marriage ended because of poor communication .
He was selected as the judge for their land case .
The employees challenged their new supervisor to improve the company's sales .
His trial has been in line for three years .
The director is holding information regarding the new organization structure .
The final hearing of the case was set for the thirty-first of June .
The president asked the old civil servants to retire from their offices .
The football team got young players every year to replace the old ones .
The office threw a party to welcome its new employees .
She smuggled a radio into school .
He tipped the police about the location of the thieves .
He was the only suspect for the murder of the legislator .
The Board of Directors has to give the manager permission to introduce a new product .
The government wanted to cancel the organization's trading license .
The school stopped registering new pupils because of investigations for examination malpractice .
He believed that his presidential candidate had won the election .
New leadership is needed for countries to develop further .
He was allowed to talk to the journalists after his trial .
The head of the sales department in the organization was replaced by a woman .
Social media has been used to run a fake story about his death .
He got a contract of five years as an employee for the ministry .
The company reshuffled its staff last Monday .
Their mathematics teacher was replaced yesterday by the new teacher .
He wrote a fake story about her father resigning from the company .
The police spoke to the reporters .
The company transferred her to their office in Mbale .
He couldn't afford to pay his tuition .
The deadline for applying for the scholarship program is today .
She asked for a dead year from school because her mother had died .
She is twelve years old .
He is not behaving in a normal way .
There are preachers all over the university today .
My sister isn't pregnant due to infertility .
His infertility was due to a health problem .
He was accused of murdering his neighbor .
Some locals suggested that the police arrest him for the robbery .
She criticized some lawyers for putting money before justice .
Some lawyers defend clients who are guilty simply because they have money .
His lawyer withdrew from the case after receiving a bribe from the defendant .
Changing your name without an oath can lead to inconsistencies in your documents .
Some people are changing their names nowadays because there is no law against it .
There should be a legal procedure for one to change their name .
The discovery of oil in our area has provided jobs for the youth .
The government has built a new market in our district .
Beekeeping has been a good source of income for my family .
Parents are encouraged to teach their children basic manners before sending them to school .
Teaching children how to behave before sending them to schools helps them socialize better .
I attended university for five years to become a doctor .
Primary school has always been seven years in total .
I think children should start primary one at five years of age .
She died in a car accident that occurred this morning .
The driver lost control of the bus because he was driving while drunk .
The manager wanted to know how much the customer paid for the dress .
The locals are complaining because they did not receive the compensation promised to them .
He won the wrestling championship belt .
He was the fastest runner in the cross country race .
Our team was selected to represent the district at the national soccer league .
He was arrested without a warrant .
Some politicians do not keep the promises they make during campaigns .
Some officials ask for money before they work on you .
The employees complained about the manager to the board of directors .
She was arrested for fraud .
He was released because there is no evidence that he stole the money .
Some officers hide evidence while at crime scenes which disorganizes investigations .
The government needs more land to settle the ever-increasing number of refugees .
There are more refugees than the district can sustain at the moment .
She was demoted to assistant manager because of poor attitude with clients .
She has been appointed prime minister of Uganda .
She is very happy about her new job .
My brother was arrested on Sunday .
He has witnesses to prove that he is innocent and must be set free .
Corruption and unemployment are the most common problems in Uganda .
The government promised to distribute hoes to the farmers .
She was released from prison this afternoon .
She was seen entering a white pickup last evening .
He criticized his colleague for picking fights with other employees .
He quit the football team .
In our company ,  the punishment for fraud is losing one's job .
He has embarrassed his family with his drinking habits .
They discovered that the fire started because the candle fell on the bed .
There was more damage in the bedroom because the fire started from there .
Two officers died in the accident last night .
She died of malaria .
The mayor died of tuberculosis .
Some employees lost their jobs when the company reorganized the branch staff .
She has been appointed the new spokesperson of the party .
I took over the position of company director from my father .
We won the match against the neighboring school last month .
They won the match by two goals in the finals .
There are two different companies with the same business name which confuses clients .
Registering your business can help you get more customers because you're genuine .
I own a hair salon in my neighborhood .
My sister was the best candidate in the entire district last year .
She was unwell during the examination period but she still passed the exams .
Many families are celebrating across the country .
She has withdrawn the harassment case against her boss .
The office will not be open for the next five days .
My friend was arrested this morning .
She is being accused of stealing money from the company .
They were released from jail yesterday .
The government wants its case to be judged by the international court .
The judge released him after his bail had been paid .
The students performed better than they did the last term .
The performance in this year's examination is the best the school has recorded .
They broke tables in the school and started a strike against the teachers .
The trial has been postponed to next week .
He has been found guilty of stealing from his neighbor's house .
I will never buy anything from that shop again .
The soccer league starts this Friday .
The game ended in a draw .
The schedule for this year's football matches has been released .
A new road has been constructed in my village .
Roadworks are causing a lot of traffic jam in the city .
Repairing the roads eases the movement of vehicles and reduces the occurrence of accidents .
The district commissioner and his assistant are arguing over the budget needed for roadwork .
The party leaders have failed to agree on a date for the elections .
The disagreement among the leaders has obstructed plans for the construction of the market .
Some people are using electricity illegally without a formal connection .
Their house caught fire because the electrical wires were connected illegally and poorly .
Our meeting at the ministry was postponed because of the pandemic .
The organization will fall if all employees don't work together .
The bank paid back the money that was deducted from my account .
He is not qualified to be the new head of the organization .
All farmers should register their land with the land committee .
Pruning coffee trees allows them to grow new branches with more fruits .
The government distributed coffee seeds to farmers in my village .
We shall sing the national anthem before the ceremony begins .
He is sorry for questioning the boss' orders .
He has apologized for raising his voice at her during the meeting .
The government allocated little money to the agriculture sector .
Our cow died after being given fake dewormers yesterday .
She is very disappointed that she did not get the promotion at work .
No action was taken despite the several complaints raised against him .
She was among the suspects in the fraud case .
He doesn't make decisions about the company anymore .
There are going to be some changes in this organization .
She is the first female president of the country .
She was elected the new vice-chairperson of the company .
She narrated the whole trip to her friends .
The company pays taxes of fifty million Ugandan shillings per year .
It is very hot in Dubai .
We contributed ten million Ugandan shillings towards the school sports day .
The government has released some money to support the footballers .
She has disobeyed the boss' rule .
We are challenging the new rule that says all employees will not be given lunch .
He is still in prison .
I took responsibility for my brother's crime and paid the fine .
She represented him in court despite knowing that the land belongs to the widow .
He has been suspended from work for two weeks as the matter is being investigated .
A dentist cannot do a heart operation because it's not his or her area of specialty .
She withdrew her instructions to have him arrested .
Brokers charge more than the actual price so that they can make some profit .
We are opening up more branches in other parts of the country .
She has been promoted to assistant headteacher .
He will take over as chief of defense forces .
My father is a general in the army .
Some people report to bosses who are younger than them .
These days ,  many farmers in Uganda have adopted commercial farming .
Owning small businesses has empowered women and helped them escape poverty .
We are voting for the new village chairperson this morning .
My brother is one of the newly appointed army generals .
He is the youngest employee in the office .
We bring you the life story of the head of the army .
She criticized her employees for making big decisions without informing her .
She ordered her maid to mop the entire house .
Children should be taught to wash their hands before eating food .
The children learned how to bake cakes .
We wash our hands with soap and water after using the toilet .
Teaching children to wash their hands before eating protects them against eating germs .
We have not received any rain this month .
The weather is very hot these days .
His bail application has been canceled by the court .
She is being charged for forging the client's signature in the contract .
Candidates are not allowed to campaign on the day of voting .
The group is no longer allowed to support any political campaigns .
He was forced to explain how he got all that money .
She reached the office at eight in the morning .
He entered his car and drove off .
She spoke to us about the newly constructed village borehole .
Most people who did not finish school cannot get jobs in this country .
She thinks that she is not good enough to compete for Miss Uganda .
I am not a member of that football team .
He started his own business when he got fired from his job .
Most people who did not finish school are struggling to make money .
She fetches water around the village for food .
January is a difficult month because most people are recovering from Christmas spending .
After the December festive season ,  we flew to Dubai for New year celebrations .
She misuses her money on unnecessary things because she doesn't have a budget .
Some of the locals do not have anything to eat .
Most crops dried up because we have not received rain for two months .
The borehole is very far from here .
We are spending a lot of money on water .
People no longer fetch water from the well because of the new borehole .
He has been crowned King of that kingdom .
She only got the promotion because she is related to the boss .
He has been in jail for three weeks .
The land is empty because the owners are not around to develop it .
The government needs a lot of money to compensate the locals for their land .
The construction of the new road has displaced many locals from their land .
We lost a lot of official documents in the fire .
The water has flooded the bedroom and the sitting room .
The police are trying to find out what started the fire at the ivory towers .
More farmers are rearing rabbits because they are profitable .
He is making a lot of money from the retail shop .
Very few Ugandans eat rabbit meat .
She is accusing her boss of harassing her at work .
We have hired a lawyer to represent us in the court case .
They scored a goal within the first two minutes of the match .
He is going to be one of the best footballers in the country .
The members are not in support of the new party regulations .
There are six candidates in the race for president .
All employees are paid salaries for the work they do in the organization .
There should be strict rules against the illegal mining of oil .
We defeated their team in the netball semifinals .
They scored more goals in the second half of the game .
We all predicted that the visiting team will win the match today .
We won the interschool football championship .
More refugees are coming into the country every day .
She donated several clothes and food to the orphans .
We sent our donation to the orphanage via mobile money .
The hospital is holding a blood donation drive this Saturday .
She has been transferred to another hospital .
There is a meeting between the two presidential candidates .
She was willing to have a meeting with her opponent .
He has a meeting with the manager to discuss his future with the company .
The political leaders have agreed that the country should have free and fair elections .
Buying a helicopter was on the budget for this financial year .
The government does not have money to fund new projects .
University research projects have been funded by the government .
Kickboxing has many boxing levels .
The government has encouraged the use of other alternative sources of energy like solar .
East African countries should reduce the rate at which they are borrowing .
There are high levels of industrialization in East Africa .
The church is a peaceful place .
The Judiciary has incurred a lot of expenses through renting court premises .
The police doesn't allow unlawful political rallies .
Some people don't have confidence in courts of law .
Men should meet the basic needs of their families .
The world economy has been affected by the pandemic .
The government should provide for vulnerable people .
The government should plan properly for its people .
The legislature has a duty of making laws in the country .
Candidates should follow specific rules and regulations .
Trade unions provide market to the products of their members .
Competent people should be recruited in positions of leadership .
Workers' unions can acquire finances for their members .
Cancer is one of the most dangerous diseases in the world .
Most of the youths are unemployed .
Farmers should embrace better farming methods .
The government compensated people who were displaced because of the recent oil discovery .
An unfavorable climate discourages agricultural activities .
The government has constructed more health facilities around the country .
People evicted from the land should be compensated .
The government provides elders with twenty thousand shillings every month .
Leaders in South Sudan are working hard to solve people's problems .
There are political instabilities in some countries neighboring Uganda .
Culture should be respected by political leaders .
More youths have benefitted from the government projects .
Most of the people are poorly paid .
Pastoralists should stop grazing their animals on people's land .
Every country has a right to protect its dignity
Elections should always be peaceful .
Uganda does not involve itself in issues of other countries .
Uganda is represented in East Africa's legislative assembly .
The media center is headed by the government spokesperson .
The United States of America has several democratic values .
Local council elections were filled with a lot of confusion .
Opposition political parties should present one candidate in the general elections .
The government has attracted foreign investors .
Without power ,  industries cannot operate .
Ugandans need to have an efficient and effective power supply .
The kickboxing federation will solicit more funds from the government .
More kickboxing training centers have been established in the country .
People have a passion for sports .
Sports is an income-generating activity .
Football academies give footballers basic knowledge in sports entertainment .
The government aims at reducing the costs of administration .
Most of the public servants want salary increments .
The government has increased taxes on alcohol .
Alcoholism has brought about issues related to domestic violence .
Some people in rural areas are alcoholics .
Policemen are disciplined through the Police Standards Unit .
The government should increase the salaries of security officers .
The government should increase the police budget .
The government has increased agricultural output through National Agricultural Advisory Services .
Farmers need access to improved seed varieties .
Farmers use herbicides to kill weeds from the garden .
Uganda should export good quality agricultural products .
Some children in rural areas are affected by early marriages .
Regional governments receive conditional grants from the government .
The central government increased the youth livelihood fund .
You have to belong to a savings group to receive money from the government .
Most of the Ugandans are employed by the Agricultural sector .
Ugandans should always have a balanced diet .
Uganda Airlines resumed its operations .
Pilots get a competitive salary .
Journalists should always be neutral and honest .
Policemen should be patriotic .
The police spokesperson said that the police will carry out investigations .
People who are given guns should be mentally and psychologically stable .
The President rewards people who give exceptional services to the country .
Uganda Revenue Authority collects taxes on behalf of the government .
The government has instruments in place intended to fight corruption .
Private schools should stop engaging in examination malpractices .
National students' examination results are released by the Uganda National Examinations Board .
Kisoro has many tourist activities .
Kisoro is a mountainous area .
Uganda is gifted with a lot of natural resources .
The mining industry has contributed to the growth and development of Uganda .
Natural resources should be well protected by the government .
An increase in oil prices discourages the movement of products to the market .
Oil prices are stabilizing .
The government should provide a favorable investment climate .
Uganda needs more football facilities .
Security officers should be highly disciplined and highly trained .
Valentine's day is on the fourteenth of February every year .
Ministers who are always absent during parliamentary sessions should resign from their positions .
The Uganda People's Defense Forces is represented in the legislature .
The Minister of Finance prepares and reads the budget for every financial year on behalf of the President .
The Public Accounts Committee found out that there is misappropriation of funds in the government .
Public funds were used to run party operations .
Over speeding causes accidents .
People shouldn't drink and drive .
He has scored forty-five goals in total ever since he started playing soccer .
We won the match against their school yesterday .
We were disqualified from the competition because my teammate did not wear his uniform .
The players looked so tired at the end of the match .
If they don't lose this match ,  they are most likely going to win the championship .
He is not allowed to play in the next five matches of the season .
I need to sleep because I am so tired .
The national team has joined the fight against racism .
They joined the rest of the world to demand justice for the deceased .
The two schools will compete in the netball semifinals tomorrow .
I tried to pass the ball to my teammate but the opponents' defender blocked it .
He has scored more goals for his team than the other players .
He headed the soccer ball straight into the goalpost .
The goalkeeper shocked everyone when he caught the ball .
The food I ordered has arrived on time .
They scored two more goals in the second half of the match .
The team blamed the coach for their loss and fired him after the game .
The coach substituted him because he was injured .
She made a lot of money from her second business .
He scored a goal within the first five minutes of the game .
That team deserved to win the competition because they trained very hard .
He passed the ball to his opponent who scored the winning goal .
The goal was disqualified because he was standing on the opponents' side .
Fans will not be allowed in the stadium during the match .
The locals celebrated their country's victory in the international dance competitions .
The school football team has won all the five matches they have played so far .
The team has been training hard for tomorrow's game .
She did not expect to get pregnant at such a young age .
This is the most competitive football match of the season .
The team lost the match today .
The stadium was packed to capacity .
We hope to win the singing competition tomorrow .
The government has allowed sports activities to resume .
Wearing open shoes during the weekdays is against the school rules .
Many people have succumbed to coronavirus .
The number of covid-19 patients has reduced .
The first match of the season will be next Friday .
The football players are following the government's instructions to protect themselves against the virus .
The stadium is surrounded by security guards .
The ushers will ensure that the guests are properly spaced .
That house has a high fence to keep out thieves .
The coach asked the team to follow the rules of the game .
You can only take this vaccine once in your life .
They threw a big party yesterday .
The players can be replaced during the match if they get tired .
The other teams have been training hard to win the matches this season .
She has the highest score on the scoreboard .
The rugby team is the second on the scoreboard .
That football team has a chance to make it to the national finals .
Very few people showed up to watch the netball game yesterday .
He has been fired from his job .
She confronted him with evidence that he cheated on her with another woman .
He wrote a story about his childhood .
Tourists have started visiting the country again .
That game park has so many animals which I would love to see .
We have been instructed to sanitize anybody who comes into the office .
Anybody visiting the zoo is required to wear a mask .
The company has restricted the number of visitors allowed to enter the office .
Some people get irritated when they hear a baby crying .
We have all been advised to wear masks at all times .
The president has ordered that there should be only two people in each car .
The company donated food to some of its employees who were laid off .
Gorillas' bodies are covered in fur because they live in cold areas .
We hope to make more profits than we did last month .
We saw an elephant crossing the road in the game park .
The zoo has been closed because of the total lockdown on the country .
The company requests all visitors to wash their hands with water and soap .
There is mandatory testing for covid-19 at the airport .
People are encouraged to stay at home during the pandemic .
Uganda has beautiful sites that you can visit for vacation .
Some people are using the lockdown to tour different parts of the country .
Our village is very far from the city center .
The heavy rain caused the river to flood the entire village .
Some of the houses in my village collapsed during the earthquake .
He was worried that the house might fall on him and his children .
The wall collapsed because it had too many cracks .
I shifted from that neighborhood because there were too many theft cases .
That district has been affected by landslides .
The village church held prayers throughout the night for their sick pastor .
It rained so heavily that the roof flew off our house .
I was scared when I saw the snake .
One of the walls cracked and fell as we watched .
She has refused to leave her old house .
Their house is not strong enough ,  it might collapse if it rains heavily .
She has no relatives who can give her shelter while she finds a new home .
The locals requested the government to help them repair the broken bridge .
The government has purchased land to accommodate the landslide victims .
He wants to leave his current house because it is in bad shape .
She lives in a small house with all her children and grandchildren .
Their house is old and in a poor state .
The roof of our house started leaking when it rained last night .
He has three wives and twenty children .
My aunt's house is too small to accommodate all my friends .
Most of the locals here cannot afford to feed their families .
The locals who survived the floods were taken to a nearby district for shelter .
The mayor asked the government to set up a temporary camp for the landslide victims .
She has no money to shift to a better house .
That district is in Eastern Uganda .
The pastor asked for support for the widows and orphans he takes care of .
The heavy rains have destroyed her crops .
That district has fifteen sub-counties .
The walls of our house have started cracking .
There are big cracks in the walls of the building .
Children are not allowed in the deep end of the swimming pool .
Some wells in the area have dried up because of the dry spell .
It is a long distance to walk .
Crops thrive in that area because the soil is fertile .
His son was crushed to death by a rolling rock last year .
There are no trees in that area .
The locals cut down the trees to create space for their gardens .
Most of the farmers in that area grow beans .
Trees protect the soil from running water which could wash it away .
I have planted a mango tree in my compound .
He is worried about the burglaries happening in the area .
He thinks that the rocks are one thousand years old .
The house is smelling paraffin .
Most of the youth in this area are working in the oil mines .
He dismissed the likelihood of a volcanic eruption .
Mountains emit Sulphur when they erupt which pollutes the air .
Most mountainous areas cannot be accessed by vehicle .
The district has a population of over two hundred thousand .
We went on a hike over the weekend .
The mountain has a beautiful national game park .
That mountain can erupt any day .
If these heavy rains continue ,  the district will face another landslide soon .
The district headquarters are located forty kilometers from the city .
The locals were angry with the district leaders for closing the market .
The residents are disappointed that the government has not supported them .
Some of the locals lost their property in the landslide .
She has not yet submitted her monthly report to the manager .
He cannot shift his family because they have nowhere else to go .
She did not want to inconvenience her sister .
The landslide victims are willing to shift to a safer area .
Some of the landslide victims do not want to shift to the resettlement camp .
The locals refused to vacate the area because it is their ancestral village .
The prime minister has responded to the locals' pleas for financial support .
The government has appointed a committee to observe the situation in that area .
The first group of landslide victims settled in their new homes today .
She went to live with her parents after her house was destroyed by a fire .
He is the state minister for relief and disaster preparedness .
He advised the government to move the survivors of the landslide to safer regions within the district .
She has refused to help her colleagues with the new project .
We had to shift to this place because my father got a new job here .
I do not trust the district leaders at all .
The heavy rains are a sign of climate change in the country .
The district chairperson registered all the victims of the landslide .
The locals claimed that they never received the food that was donated to them .
The government has put a lot of effort into reducing the number of covid-19 infections .
The mountain is located on the border of Uganda and Kenya .
The landslides have displaced many people from their homes .
It is the highest mountain in the country .
The area is prone to landslides .
There have been over ten landslides in that area over the past ten years .
The bodies of the people who were buried in the landslide were not found .
Several landslides have occurred in Eastern Uganda .
The regions where landslides occurred had high populations which made them high-risk areas for settlement .
That area is mountainous .
She has to account for the money she was given for shopping .
The government has released money to support the footballers in international competitions .
He claims that his wife started the argument .
I have not received any money from him .
He gave his wife some money to buy food for the house .
I paid the last installment of my car loan yesterday .
We have not received any donations since the year began .
That company does not have enough money to pay its employees .
That money will be used to pay office bills .
The other football teams complained that they dont receive any support from the government .
The company used some of the money to pay the salaries of the employees .
The national football team has received ten billion Ugandan shillings from the government .
Some of the money my father sent me for tuition was deducted in taxes .
The government does not have money for constructing new roads .
I did not receive the money that the government promised us .
The number of covid-19 patients has increased .
My sister has tested positive for malaria .
The children contracted the coronavirus while on a music tour .
She was discharged from the hospital this morning .
There has been a decrease in the number of infections over the past month .
The president encouraged us to wear masks to protect ourselves against the virus .
Police officers are surrounding the building .
No one is allowed to move after seven o'clock in the evening .
The supermarket is very far from where I stay .
That company uses motorcycles to deliver food to its customers .
Cars are not allowed to move for the next two weeks .
The government has pledged to support its less privileged citizens in these hard times .
The vendors are stranded with their goods outside the market .
I closed my boutique after the president's speech on Friday .
We focus our donations on people who are struggling to feed their families .
Many businesses made losses during the pandemic .
The government distributed money to support some of its citizens during the lockdown .
Our company contributed fifty million Ugandan shillings towards the construction of the new road .
Nowadays ,  weddings have less than twenty people .
The district has bought three new ambulances .
That committee will work hard to support the locals .
The new manager has increased our working hours to improve job performance .
The president has ordered all district leaders to transport patients to hospitals .
He was criticized for arguing with his boss .
Anybody found moving at night will be arrested .
Nurses are required to wear masks and gloves when attending to patients .
I went to the market to buy food for the party .
The hospital has run out of gloves .
Some doctors are worried that they may get infected too .
When you wear a mask and gloves ,  you're protected against the virus .
The government spent a lot of money to buy coronavirus test kits .
The locals are not allowed to move at night .
During the pandemic ,  no one was allowed to drive their vehicle to other districts .
His car was confiscated by the police because he was driving past curfew time .
Most of the locals are following the president's orders .
She slapped her boss because he was harassing her .
The government vehicles should be used strictly for official work .
He is the district chairperson .
My brother was arrested yesterday .
The witness narrated the accident to the police .
He is accused of disobeying the president's instructions .
He missed the district committee meeting this morning .
He was using the government vehicle for personal jobs .
We scored two goals against the visiting team .
Sports activities resumed but only players are allowed in the stadiums .
All soccer matches have been postponed for three months .
He will come back to the office next week .
He scored his third goal of the match .
That team has over thirty players .
We shall train hard for the next two weeks to win the national finals .
Both teams substituted players three times during the match .
He stood behind me in the line .
If we don't win this game ,  we shall have to play in the losers' match .
The match will start tomorrow in the afternoon .
The team was founded over one hundred years ago .
I watched the match on television at a nearby bar .
He retired from playing football two years ago .
There are no supporters in the stadium .
Watching the match from your home gives you the freedom to do anything .
The spectators cheered in support of his goal .
Each of the players was tested for coronavirus before entering the stadium .
The police fired bullets in the air to disperse the crowds .
It is a professional football club .
The fans are watching the football match from their homes .
We held prayers in honor of those who died last year .
We all clapped for the best player in the match .
The supporters were cheering loudly in celebration of their team's goals .
Our team won the national soccer finals .
Some parents are mistreating their children .
Our mission is to support orphans in the community to complete their education .
The company has branches in forty-eight districts across the country .
That organization is helping poor people with money to support their families .
Some children dropped out of school because of the pandemic .
The company has released money for the purchase of medicine .
That organization donated desks to the village school .
He took photographs of the ceremony .
I donated exercise books to some children in my village .
The students in villages are not learning because their parents cannot afford computers .
The government will find a solution for the children who stopped learning .
The foundation has been supporting the elderly in the community .
The project will cover four districts in the country .
Some men beat their wives at home .
She asked the locals to work with the police to catch the criminals .
Some people die because they don't receive blood in time .
The hospital does not have blood for transfusions .
Few people donate blood nowadays .
The hospital has organized a blood donation campaign tomorrow .
Some people do not know that donating blood saves the lives of many people .
That organization is responsible for keeping the blood we donate safely .
Some patients die from blood loss because hospitals have no blood .
He urged the locals to donate blood .
She is a pediatrician .
Some of the locals have no means of reaching the hospital .
Anemia can lead to death in pregnant women .
We drove to the hospital yesterday .
There is no blood in the blood bank .
The blood donation campaign had very few supporters .
The youth are encouraged to donate blood because they're strong .
The Chinese have built several roads in our country .
Good roads ease the transportation of goods to the market .
The government has built a new road in my district .
The Chinese government renovated the president's house for free .
Computers make work easier and save time .
Some Americans claim that the virus was made by the Chinese government .
The Chinese government has supported the economic growth of many African countries .
The government has contracted a Chinese company to construct that road .
The rumor that China intentionally manufactured the coronavirus is false .
The economic war between America and China has extended to Africa .
She was accused of stealing money from the company .
The project couldn't be sustained because of the lack of funds .
My brother followed me to the party to observe what I was doing .
There are American soldiers in some countries in Africa .
For over sixty years ,  Uganda was being governed by the British government .
The government of America spies on some countries to protect the oppressed citizens .
Some rebels wanted to overthrow the government .
The wars in some African countries are because of dictatorships .
Some European and Asian countries set tough conditions for donations to African countries .
Businesses are required to operate after obtaining a trading license .
Investors are given free land to establish industries and factories .
Security was tightened in Kasese district .
Ambassadors represent the country's interests .
The government may have agents in the opposition parties .
Opposition members lack funds to finance party activities .
Opposition leaders should be united .
Uganda telecom was privatized by the government .
The telecom company needs to consistently advertise and market its products .
The media is insightful .
Kampala Capital City Authority football club is the best club in Uganda this season .
The football team won the premier league and the Uganda cup .
Some opposition members were elected to represent Uganda in the East African Legislative Assembly .
Every country in East Africa sends members to the East African Legislative Assembly .
All commercial banks are regulated by the Bank of Uganda .
That bank ran bankrupt and its shares were sold off .
Schools in Wakiso and Kampala performed better than those in other districts .
Schools in rural areas performed poorly .
The youth livelihood program aims at creating employment for the people .
Youths will improve their standards of living through the youth livelihood program .
The government intends to provide funds to youths so that they engage in business .
Those funds should be followed up so that they are used to achieve the intended objectives .
A court is a place for serving justice .
Uganda has many security agencies .
The court was rescheduled until ninth June .
The private sector contributes the biggest percentage to the Ugandan economy .
People will be equipped with skills to speed up the production process .
World Bank has funded various projects in Uganda .
The ruling political party fought for peace in Uganda .
The army had the objective of capturing power .
Other people funded the war .
Many people have benefitted from the National Resistance government .
Many people lost their lives during the war .
They do not know what they are supposed to do .
Farmers lack pesticides and insecticides to control diseases .
Farmers recorded low yields in the last planting season .
Farmers should use effective and efficient agricultural measures to control the spread of pests and diseases .
Some farmers have been discouraged by the low maize prices on the market .
The government purchased disease-resistant seeds for the farmers .
People don't have what to eat .
Boxing clubs have sent representatives to the boxing championships at Lugogo .
Referees have been accused of being inexperienced .
Ugandan ambassadors should uphold the dignity of the country .
Security agencies should respect the constitution .
The three arms of government depend on each other .
Uganda Revenue Authority is under the Ministry of Finance .
Some businesses avoid paying taxes .
Uganda should send experts in international relations to the East African Legislative Assembly .
People should always be given a chance to serve the country .
The regional assembly solves issues affecting the member states .
Politicians and public servants should make proper decisions for the people .
Politicians are elected by the people .
Police should be well facilitated to effectively carry out proper investigations .
Cultural leaders should be given proper security .
All criminals should be charged in the courts of law .
Parents pay huge amounts of money to take their children back to school .
Private schools charge high amounts of school fees .
The government increased taxes on some products .
Some parents take children to schools that provide scholarships and bursaries .
Parents want to take their children to the best schools .
Some secondary schools are only concerned about making money .
Legislators need to know the constitution .
Government policies have empowered people in the justice ,  law ,  and order sector .
The Speaker presides over the legislature .
Uganda is engaged in multi-party politics .
Politicians need to look out for political support .
Party members are required to follow the party rules and procedures .
Farmers in Lwengo district lack enough market for their agricultural produce .
Farmers sold some of their products at lower prices because of the low demand .
People should have respect for each other in society .
Some people believe in witchcraft .
Hundreds of wild birds were found dead on the shores of Lake Victoria .
The agricultural sector should be given more funds in the next financial year .
Uganda should export good quality agricultural produce .
People always struggle to achieve their dreams .
People turn to God when they are facing problems .
Footballers in the third division are not well facilitated .
African Union elects a new chairperson every year .
He won the elections because of his popularity in that district .
Kenya has a stable economy .
Children learn so many things when they socialize with each other .
Children are given small roles and responsibilities as they grow up .
Educational toys teach children about sharing .
Elders should provide for their children .
Our company has established different branches across the country .
Women lack enough capital to engage in business activities .
Some women are the breadwinners in their homes .
Most people in Uganda have small business enterprises .
The country has won very many gold medals from the continental boxing championship .
The government should extend free medical services to people in rural areas .
Uganda lacks sports facilities .
Sports federations should have a clear organizational structure .
People should be informed about the dangers of tobacco .
The sale of single cigarettes is prohibited in Uganda .
The president has the power to appoint the vice president .
Some politicians from the opposition are only concerned about their welfare .
You are the next speaker .
You have a nice handwriting .
In Africa ,  elders are greeted by the young members of the community .
I want to charge my phone .
What plans do you have for your son's education ?
I am a member of the writers' club at my school .
Do you have a role model ?
You have a nice photo album .
Thank you for turning up for this meeting .
Always be hopeful in your life .
Our road trip was the best !
Her daughter is the director of our organization .
The school needs a nurse .
Who has switched off the lights ?
I am going to watch the waves on the lake .
Which group made that advert ?
I saw an elephant yesterday .
You won't understand the reason why they fought .
The school uniform does not match at all .
You have said a lot of words .
Why were you crying ?
I found him melting the metal at the factory .
Did you put anything in this box ?
The whole class went silent when I entered .
I have a lot of things to do .
I dont know how to drive .
He knows how to speak English .
Have you been to any hills in Uganda ?
Come along with that dictionary .
What is wrong with your eye ?
Tell your teacher the truth .
I want to buy a faster car .
What do you know about that girl ?
I like what I see .
Did I promise to give you anything ?
I sat on my mother's laps throughout the whole journey .
Why didnt you call me yesterday ?
I want some lemons .
Your skirt is dirty .
The waitress is complaining about your behavior .
Who bought that dress for her ?
You are the pride of this family .
Did you apologize to your mother ?
Why did you stop ?
I know how to weave a basket .
Is there anything to eat ?
The musician was involved in an accident .
Where is the nearest saloon ?
I like this song .
Those are nice trousers .
I am happy with my current state of life .
My wife is here to see the lawyer .
Come closer and I tell you something .
We are going to get timber from these trees .
He said that the girl wasnt his type .
I found these kids playing from the road .
What is his latest song ?
This boy likes being dressed in bright-colored clothing .
Why did you say that to her ?
All my sisters are wedded .
She touched my shoulder gently .
Do you know how much money I spent on transport ?
We had a nice engagement yesterday .
Do you think you are a king ?
Use the door on your left-hand side .
Why dont you get some sleep ?
This is not funny .
Do you know how it pains to lose a mother ?
Your phone is ringing .
I always greet people in the morning hours .
Come to my office immediately .
You have a black insect on your shirt .
Why are you standing here alone ?
She has been sitting there since morning .
I was talking to my father on phone .
Why did you send the secretary away ?
The house that they were building has collapsed .
Why are your eyes red ?
Pass me that cup of coffee .
Why are you breathing like a rabbit ?
Remove that book from the table .
I am sorry for abusing you .
You have taken long in there .
Isn't that your father ?
I am going to sell this radio .
We are currently not allowing visitors .
This hotel is always closed every first day of the week .
Your father speaks slowly .
Fill that jerrycan with water .
I am not feeling well today .
I have been listening attentively to the news .
What are the names of your first two daughters ?
Why are you dragging my mother in this ?
Its going to rain .
What are you doing up there ?
Which song is that ?
My uncle is a retired primary school teacher .
How could you do that ?
It has been raining these days .
How much do you receive at the end of the month ?
The goats have drunk the water that was in the basin .
The disease has affected the coffee business .
Is there any insect moving on my head ?
Where am I going to get all that money from ?
The company is facing a difficult time .
I retired ten years ago .
Let us wait for the minister's announcement today .
He refused to clean the house .
My father has been laid off .
I know some money lenders .
We need to be at home by two o'clock .
Have you paid all the school fees ?
The tea is still hot .
Why did you keep quiet ?
I am here watching television .
This is the man that your father was referring to .
I am going to eat one slice of bread .
The bank lending rates are high .
Are you sure about selling this house ?
Why do you abuse your friends ?
My teachers used to say that we have to become problem solvers .
Call me after thirty minutes .
I thought I would never see you again .
When are we getting paid ?
Do you know how to pray the rosary ?
Take off that shirt and wash it .
The government had promised to send us some money .
I said all the prayers that I know .
May I have your attention ,  please ?
Let me go and see what I can do .
Your name reminds me of someone .
You won't be late .
Is there soap in the bathroom ?
There are a few driving schools around here .
I have been stressed for the whole day .
Did you comb your hair ?
I bought some jack fruit from the market .
Surely ,  you are not okay .
The government has bought a new police uniform .
I can cause you to be arrested .
This guy is determined to build the house .
Sometimes you dont have to insist on being right .
Is there a garage here ?
We shall be having the meeting in twenty minutes .
You are free to enter .
Why are people impatient these days ?
I have a lot on my mind .
You pretend as if everything is okay .
What is your friend up to ?
You left your radio here last night .
Why dont you have your business insured ?
We are not the same .
Let us talk about something different .
When did you get married ?
My friend sent his greetings to you .
I watched the movie with my family .
Have you checked on your mother lately ?
Do you know how I feel about you ?
The moment he closed his eyes ,  tears started rolling .
Why are you using a lot of words to talk about yourself ?
My father has paid all my school fees .
It is not wise to buy a car at this time .
Tell the manager to increase our salaries .
I work with an insurance company .
What do you have to say about this pregnancy ?
I dont have any money left on me .
Someone helped me to cross the river .
Most people will never treat you kindly .
I am into the money lending business .
The fish jumped back into the water .
How may I help you ?
I have bad news for you .
Do you know his address ?
What are you carrying in that bag ?
Is there anyone who doesn't know you ?
The moderator asked her a lot of questions .
It's too early to predict how the game will end .
Some people die from prison .
The bank has given me up to Wednesday to have paid the loan .
I can't see clearly because of the rain .
May her soul rest in peace .
This story is making me uncomfortable .
You have to be there for your brother .
What were you thinking ?
The motorcycle rider asked me for my phone number .
What do you want your child to be in the future ?
The driver called me by a certain name .
You have to hand in your report by Friday .
Someone has entered in there .
Where do you keep your records ?
I am looking for the manager's office .
This is where the fight started from .
Did he call you ?
Have you been running ?
What can one do without money ?
Who is that playing with the door ?
Why didnt you tell me that you are coming ?
Dont keep me waiting ,  please .
He said that he was not here to play any games .
I am going to leave the door open .
May I have the food delivered to my office ?
Our economy is struggling to revive .
I am not doing business with you .
How can you treat your best friend as an enemy ?
Go and check on the dogs outside .
You have to pay my money in three months .
We made few profits in the last two years .
For how long will I study this course ?
I was never prepared for this weather .
There is ink in your pocket .
My neck is paining .
Do you deliver food to people's homes ?
Where are you rushing to ?
He keeps his money with the bank .
How many books do you want ?
I expected to see you yesterday .
Where did you get this money from ?
This world is not fair .
I dont have electricity at my place .
What is in the envelope ?
This is the picture of the girl that we buried today .
I am looking for a new shop attendant .
Do you really need a car ?
What are you writing ?
You need to take a bath .
Pass me that book on top of the speaker .
Have you been successful in getting the loan ?
I have been relieved .
My son has promised to send me some money .
I am blessed to have you in my life .
Where will I benefit from ?
Your husband is cheating on you .
She used to be a teacher .
This letter was written by your son .
We promise to offer you the best meals .
The university is receiving applications from those who want to join this year .
Always keep your password to yourself .
He sent me the money a day later .
The police arrested the people that were found in that bar .
You have a smooth skin .
The children have been anxiously waiting for you .
I need that cup .
Your hands are too soft .
He reminded me of something that we saw yesterday .
I found them hugging each other .
Tell me what your name is .
He promised to kill the thieves .
I will give you what you need .
What have I done to you ?
My father is not in support of our relationship .
I work at the same place with my husband .
I am going to use the train .
He said that he can't marry her .
I heard your song on the radio .
We take different paths in life .
This pen was given to me by my primary school teacher .
How fast can that bank work on my loan ?
The cat has poured milk on the carpet .
You will be arrested for the rest of your life .
Is she the right woman for you ?
The photocopier that I bought recently is a duplicate .
My wife earns more money than I do .
The hen has spent three days without laying on its eggs .
She did not grow up with her parents .
The sheep have been running around my compound .
You need a lot of money to build a good house .
A certain woman called me this morning claiming to be your teacher .
Do you want her help or not ?
He is searching for a woman to marry .
I will not be able to meet you next week .
He hasnt paid this month's rent .
She knows how to weave baskets .
Why is he peeping through the window ?
Thank you for cleaning the sitting room .
Call me after one hour .
I have not yet fried my egg .
Dont put the baby on the table .
The picture was stuck on the wall with tape .
You have a nice watch .
I have washed my mosquito net .
Do you know where to find the keys ?
You need to reduce the time spent in the bar .
This room can contain more than ten people .
There is no food left in the store .
Did you see the rainbow ?
I am going to buy juice .
Are you serious about the suspension ?
I want to put these chairs in one corner .
I am already scared .
Where can I start from ?
Dont be afraid ,  everything will be fine .
I am going to look at the stars .
Why do you pretend as if you care ?
I am sorry about what I said the other day .
We are offering scholarships to vulnerable children .
I am glad that you are safe .
She has an attractive smile .
Let us face life together .
My mother has woken up .
I normally write down whatever comes to my mind .
Follow me to the backyard .
When did you dream about this woman ?
I sent this letter a year ago .
The baby is beautiful .
Extend your sit to the wall .
You have many things to work on .
Let me even go and wash my cup .
I can walk you to your home .
This is a nice picture .
Are we doing this again ?
She didnt want me to leave .
How much are you going to charge me ?
Listen attentively to that song .
I am also wondering why you told her your name .
You are imagining a lot of things in your head .
You surely can't sleep when you have problems to solve .
The week is almost coming to an end .
Where do you want to go this afternoon ?
Some people think that we have a lot of money .
Today's driver is the best !
What is your room number ?
Try cleaning the windows at least .
This year must be better than last year .
Dont worry about the money .
There are a lot of people coming in to see the doctor .
That is not a formal greeting .
Allow me to settle down first .
I dont want anyone to know about this conversation .
This girl is good at lying .
The teacher said that he can't see my results .
Do you have any vacancies at your company ?
Why didnt you clean up your room ?
You have a strong perfume .
I haven't used this desk in a while .
The room is stuffy .
Your friend is disorganized .
Can't you chew with your mouth shut ?
Things have changed over time .
I am the one who sang that song .
I can only work if the salary is good .
The person that you are talking to is asleep .
You have such a bigfoot .
The party will be starting soon .
We shall be announcing the winner at midnight .
Why are you raising your hands ?
How many bottles has he drunk so far ?
I will be visiting you next week .
That boy spoilt my art piece .
Who is the woman you came with at home ?
What are you going to wear to the party ?
I know someone who can drive you around town .
Your mother will be fine soon .
What plans do you have for the weekend ?
I will buy for you thirty bags of cement .
Will you be around for tea this evening ?
Did you receive the invitation letter ?
May I borrow your suit ?
Someone stole my six pairs of socks .
My girlfriend is too shy .
Please take the front seat .
He didnt want me to leave the netball team .
Your room is too dirty .
I am listening to music .
My friends are going to come to my place .
Do you want to rape me ?
This is the best hotel in town .
Why dont you stay at home ?
He has bought a new car .
We were treated kindly at your home .
He came with a beautiful girl to the party .
My uncle bought a big piece of land at a very low price .
I spend most of my time in the flower garden .
At what time did you leave office ?
Go and play with your friends .
The ceiling has started to crack .
I found a lot of cobwebs in that corner .
Dont lean on the walls .
We took the photos from that studio .
Who has brought this metal here ?
He was awarded a gold medal at the competition .
The whole group of friends was charged for her kidnapping .
She accused her sister of stealing her dress .
His business made a loss of twenty million Uganda shillings .
The junior officers had to work extra hours because their workload increased .
The engineer didn't supervise the construction of the apartment building .
The school has not prepared for the prefects' elections .
The doctor told the press there were no guidelines to contain the virus .
There were no Local Council Three elections last year .
There was little hope that the elections would happen .
He was given disease-free bean seedlings last season .
His crops dried up due to insufficient water .
He bought land in that region just before the oil was discovered .
He sold his land to his friend at one billion Uganda shillings .
She hoped her land would be more valuable in ten years .
They were required to gather very many signatures for the petition to be approved .
There was no law against walking after three o'clock in the morning .
He filed a petition for a vote recount .
He expected an apology from his mother for abandoning him at an early age .
The two leaders met to talk about the ongoing situation .
Some students complained to the dean of the college about their missing results .
All the students were expected to participate in the elections .
He resides in that university .
Only registered students are allowed to go to the university hospital .
He was given a ten percent interest on his loan .
He borrowed some money from his neighbor .
There was no way of avoiding the consequences of her dishonesty .
He built an apartment building in a road reserve .
The family has been compensated with seven million dollars for their losses .
She scored the highest mark in the examination .
The results for the previous semester were released today morning .
Social studies was the worst done subject in the class last year .
That class has the highest number of students passing with excellent results this year .
Her aunt is a professional accountant .
He was among the soldiers sent to Somalia .
He organized a talk with his father to mend their relationship .
He broke the agreement they signed to regulate their competition .
Her brother died in a motorcycle accident two years ago .
The driver lost control and knocked two people walking on the road .
He broke his leg in the accident .
The five siblings shared ten million Uganda shillings among themselves .
Employees all over the country complained about the increase in the Value Added Tax .
The legislators demanded an investigation of the recent kidnappings .
She has a debt of ten thousand to pay back in two days .
The company sued the government over canceling its services for no proper reason .
The family's petition against their daughter's rapist was approved today .
He had no protection for his crimes against the family .
There is a statue in the middle of the park .
They accepted to sponsor her education .
He was gifted with a car .
Hockey is not a popular sport in Uganda .
The school excluded her from sports activities because of her poor health .
He released his first movie in March .
The football coach discussed the importance of a united team .
My uncle retired from his office yesterday .
He saved money to take him through his retirement days .
Some coffee types are grown in mountains .
The friends talked about their failing friendship .
The two political parties were at war with each other .
The volleyball team signed a contract to play for the country .
He named his company after his wife .
He has no investment despite working for twenty years .
Her father threatened to beat her for refusing to do her house chores .
He was next in line to succeed in his father's position in the company .
I am three months pregnant .
The family didn't know how many buildings their father owned .
Her son stopped behaving badly .
The family suggested cooking little food to solve his overeating problem .
No one can argue with the boss .
The factory needs more labor .
Her brother is underpaid for the work he does .
Kenya has the best railway system in East Africa .
The workers complained about a poor working environment .
She was defeated in the dance competition .
The workmates respected each other .
She joined the army last Monday .
The company has hired a new secretary .
She went to the army base in Somalia to report about their leader's retirement .
The director ordered the supervisor to make a budget for the field trip .
The family considered themselves a middle-income family .
He hasn't produced a report for his final year project .
The opposing team won the debate .
His farm was infested with rats .
Bacteria can develop a resistance against some treatments .
Our neighbors are Muslims .
The students damaged the windows of the college during the riot .
A Sheikh teaches Islam to fellow Muslims .
The national netball competitions start today .
The rugby coach doesn't stay in the school .
He arrived early for the event .
The family funded the investigations of their child's kidnapping .
His parents demanded an investigation into his murder case .
She helped her sister with her homework .
He was the youngest player on the volleyball team .
Few countries in Africa have reached middle-income status .
Her mother recovered from breast cancer .
He is a Christian .
The queen ordered the execution of the two thieves .
Western Uganda has many tourist sites .
The clergy condemned the act of false miracles .
The students wanted to know who had ordered them to stay in their dormitories .
He is the new ambassador to China .
She told her brother to mind his business .
The organization donated clothes to children in that foster home .
Currently ,  most people in Uganda have mobile phones .
His whole family died in a house fire .
Theft is on the rise in Kampala .
The police is still investigating the minister's murder .
There are more male employees in that company than females .
Every political party has its own unique set of rules .
This football team is one of the best this season .
He was one of the world's greatest footballers .
Our swimming coach was impressed with my performance .
Schools should emphasize a balance between academics and sports .
The government banned the sale of dangerous drugs .
So many people in this area will be displaced by their landlord tomorrow .
The groundbreaking ceremony will take place at our king's palace
Country leaders should always have the citizens' best interests at heart .
She is the wife of one of the presidential candidates .
The new year begins tomorrow .
He legally changed his name when he turned twenty years .
Her daughter has been missing for more than a week .
No cars were allowed into the city beyond three o'clock in the afternoon .
He survived a plane crash that killed fifty people .
Three candidates are competing for the highest position in the company .
We go to school to acquire knowledge .
They are the best live band in the city .
The concert was a huge success .
There are many restaurants in our town .
The government has embarked on relieving the economy by opening some sectors .
It is unlawful to litter in public .
The minister said most vendors prefer to sell by the roadside than in arcades .
Fishermen were cautioned against the high number of crocodiles in that lake .
He said every country is now trying to manufacture its coronavirus vaccine .
The number of Ebola cases in the country has increased .
Sometimes the lines in the banking halls are very long .
The teams drew one to one in the final match .
He broke many high jump records in the Olympics .
He scored the first goal in the football match .
The school receives visitors every week .
She lost the elections in her hometown .
The number of coronavirus cases in the country is worrying .
China has a large population of people .
The long-awaited football match is finally here .
The European Union has twenty seven member states .
The prime minister said the government is doing all in its power to stop human trafficking .
These pictures were taken in different parts of the world .
He said that the plan to reopen schools is still under debate .
It has been a while since the last national population census was carried out .
Many of my classmates would like to study in Greece .
The president and prime minister will be attending the function tomorrow .
The football season has just started .
Government should assist farmers in rural areas .
He is a respectable man in the community .
She described his death as unexpected .
Many organizations have come up to help the victims of war .
People without company identification cards were not allowed to enter the building .
Arua hosts a large number of employees from South Sudan .
There are many refugees in Uganda .
There are many interesting articles in today's newspaper .
All political parties should put the citizens' interests first .
He commended the president for maintaining peace within the country .
We should always pray for good health .
All countries are doing their best to prevent the further spread of the disease .
The university has put up new rules for international students .
Every person should wear a face mask while in a public place .
The manager said it's not easy to manage company resources .
He was satisfied by the excellent service at the restaurant .
Girls should be encouraged to participate in sports at school .
The headteacher directed all sick students to be sent home immediately .
She said the country needs at least two national airports .
Many heads of state have arrived in the country to take part in the peace talks .
Some businesses increased their sales during the coronavirus pandemic .
Not everyone in the company was interested in participating in the elections .
This road is too small to handle the ever-increasing traffic .
All groups of people should have fair representation in parliament .
Many farmers are complaining about the pests which are destroying their crops .
The Ugandan currency is depreciating .
She learned to be patient while staying with her children during the lockdown .
The minister advised all sick people to seek immediate medical attention .
This city is known for having the best hotels .
Each debate team had to score at least six points to qualify for the next round .
He said hard work is the key to maintaining the top position in the mathematics competition .
We have one of the best national cricket teams in the country .
The football coach told the journalists that he was pleased with the performance of his players .
All academic institutions in Uganda were closed for three months to curb the spread of the virus .
Malaria is one of the commonest diseases on the continent .
He began playing football at six years of age .
He is the head of the Muslim association in this district .
Many businesses had to close this year because of inadequate capital .
Many people lost their jobs because of the pandemic .
The doctor said carrying out a coronavirus test is the only way to be sure if you are not infected .
The organization was shut down because it was allegedly carrying out illegal operations .
Her favorite sport is basketball .
She was allegedly left unattended to by the nurse for over four hours .
There are many companies manufacturing masks in the country .
He dedicated his latest song to his father .
She said little children require lots of attention .
Only one passenger died when the bus collided with a truck .
They were arrested for operating without a valid license .
The tourists climbed to the peak of the mountain .
The president of Uganda restricted movement into and across districts to curb the spread of the virus .
The pastor invites people to pray at his home every Friday .
People spend a lot of money during the festive season .
The organization is raising funds to help the elderly .
The market vendors told people to wash their hands before entering the market .
Her pictures spread on social media like wildfire .
The doctor told her to eat more vegetables than meat .
His loan request was rejected by the bank .
He was operating a bar without a license .
The seedlings are ready to be transferred to the garden .
He gave us an invitation a day to the wedding .
The leader banned imported goods .
Bars are still closed because of coronavirus .
The children were punished for disobeying their father .
He requested them to refund his money .
The students are excited about the new classroom block .
Her hair started breaking when she started dieting .
Soccer is his favorite game .
She plants vegetables in her backyard .
Their family depends entirely on agriculture .
Most youths in rural areas have given up on education .
The landlord collects rent at the end of every month .
The sanitary prefect advised her fellow students to wash their hands after using the toilet .
The truck driver tested positive for coronavirus while at the border .
Everyone was shocked by the sudden death of the priest .
Our mother always encouraged us to pray every day .
The nursery bed was put under a tree to avoid direct sunlight .
The elections were free and fair .
All the primary five students participated in the singing competition .
The beach is crowded on weekends .
My uncle could not wait to get off the plane and see his family .
He lost his money in sports betting .
The match was canceled due to bad weather .
Doctors encouraged us to eat fruits to boost our immunity .
He scored five goals during the match .
The leader has many bodyguards .
I last talked to her three months ago .
They donated food to the orphanage .
He wrote a list of people that were involved in the fraud .
The factory was destroyed during the fight with the rebels .
The demonstrators ran off when they saw the police .
The army attacked and killed the rebels last night .
She refused to cover her face scars with makeup .
Children get career guidance from parents and teachers .
The bridge fell due to heavy floods .
The school offered to clean the church after the Sunday service .
He is a talented basket ballplayer .
He recited the rosary while waiting for the bus .
The leader encouraged parents to take children for immunization
He seemed to be upset during his singing performance .
He trained his children to play the piano during the lockdown .
She was crowned the winner of the international beauty pageant last year .
They sang the national anthem before the game began .
Manchester United has very many fans in Uganda .
He was sued for child neglect .
The birthday party was held at her hostel .
The goalkeeper saved them from losing the match .
They scored four goals at the beginning of the game .
The university is researching coronavirus .
Some people are afraid of participating in general elections .
They received funding for building a hospital .
His family was quarantined upon arrival at the airport .
Some people use various social media platforms to connect with others across the world .
He submitted an incident report yesterday .
He enjoys eating hot food .
He was given a demand notice because he had not paid rent for six months .
They could not get married due to their religious differences .
My son was suspended from school for fighting .
Power has gone off in our region .
He was stranded at the border for over one week .
Her daughter was abducted for political reasons .
The judge excused herself from the case because the accused is her niece .
Some politicians are good at making empty promises .
We use disinfectant to clean the baby's play mat .
Change is part of life .
Everyone was shocked when they heard the news .
The youths refused to participate in the elections .
She is fond of giving excuses .
The shopkeeper knows the stock and price of every commodity in the shop .
The community leaders organize a festival every year .
There was a lot of food and drinks at the party .
His Rolex watch is very costly .
All employees deserve to take leave for at least one week .
His driving permit was taken because he was drinking while driving .
Motorbikes should carry only one passenger .
There were many celebrities at the party .
They received a grant to build a daycare .
His car is always clean .
People in Uganda love football .
He is now an international football player .
Uganda Cranes has more points after scoring two goals .
The school was closed because it did not meet the required standards .
He poured cold water into the radiator to cool the engine .
We have to look at the original copy of the certificate .
I play football during my free time .
He hasn't yet paid the taxes for his real estate business .
The final election results will be announced on Friday .
She was the shortest girl in our class .
He has to use a wheelchair for his whole life due to the damage to his spinal cord .
His political party won the elections .
The legislator presented the budget for the new financial year last week .
My father is a professor of law .
That basketball team has been the winner of the championship for four years .
The ministry of health reported two hundred new coronavirus cases today .
She left the family home because she wanted to be independent .
There was a debate about the introduction of taxes on internet usage in parliament .
She resorted to doing business online following the closure of the arcades because of the pandemic .
The picture shows who attended the debate on Wednesday .
The clinic misdiagnosed her with malaria .
My friend's family organized a fundraising drive to raise money for her liver operation .
That organization donated food to the community school .
I was a waitress at a popular restaurant during my senior four vacation .
He inspired her to take courageous steps in pursuing her career path .
The washing bay's customer base has increased this year .
The company trains its new employees until they are familiar with the technology used .
Her cousin was suspended from school for two weeks .
The police raided his home and arrested him for murdering his girlfriend .
The coronavirus cases in Masaka have reduced because of the lockdown .
The two police officers severely beat the murder suspect .
My father is a dictator .
He projected the pandemic to end in five years based on the present facts .
The president appointed a female Vice President .
The thief stabbed the man in the stomach five times .
She is the first self-made millionaire from her family .
He wrote a report about the child's efforts to better his life .
She has a shop that sells charcoal .
She has three female pigs on her farm .
The procurement officer buys newspapers for the employees .
That newspaper has reliable information .
There is a newspaper vendor in Ntinda .
The shortcut to town was blocked yesterday .
The farming project was targeting Northern Uganda .
His brother developed an application for predicting crop yield .
The two siblings have a good relationship .
She got copyrights for her song .
He was sentenced to death because he was a serial killer .
Her sister's body was cut into twenty pieces and placed in a polythene bag .
The headmistress from her former school recommended her for the scholarship .
The church service includes one hour for praise and worship .
The children are malnourished because of poor feeding .
The police sent officers to the village to investigate the old woman's murder .
The district officer noted an increase in the number of coronavirus cases in the region .
Some motorcycle drivers don't wear face masks while carrying passengers .
Her nephew was accused of stealing the family land title .
She hasn't been to the field in three years .
Fish farming is an upcoming popular business .
The main function of the heart is to pump blood throughout the body .
Their children aren't interested in any sports activities .
The rebels have attacked that village several times .
The government distributed face masks all over the country last year .
The couple postponed their wedding meeting to twenty first July .
The manager promised to increase each employee's salary .
The architect informed his client that construction would be over in two weeks .
My parents extended my curfew to nine o'clock in the evening .
They negotiated for a five percent reduction in the price of the tent .
Lately ,  the weather is unpredictable .
The wrestling match is scheduled for this Thursday .
After he escaped from prison ,  he was on the run for two years .
His personal information was leaked to the public .
The group organized a demonstration against the recent brutal killings of black people .
She included half the class on the list of noisemakers .
The story about the president's death had no genuine source .
He tested positive for the coronavirus .
The school canceled the intercampus sports games because of the flu outbreak .
The ship's cruise on the Atlantic Ocean lasted for three months .
She didn't warn her friend about the dangers of abortion .
The two girls noticed a bond between them immediately .
She was the second best student in her class last term .
The volleyball team has a chance to move to the second position after today's game .
She has a hard-working mentality .
He scored twelve points during a basketball match .
I am the most paid employee in the organization .
She lost her job during the pandemic because the company had to downsize .
There has been a drop in the number of tourists because of the pandemic .
Lockdown has had a severe impact on the economy and people's livelihoods .
The manager criticizes his work a lot .
The corporation wants to set up offices in the new cities .
The report has information about the new cities .
The newspaper has stories from reliable sources .
A kilogram of fresh beans is four thousand Ugandan shillings in that market .
His initial statement about the murder differs from his recent one .
The network services are currently unavailable .
The organization underpays female employees .
Her boss threatened to fire her if she refused to sleep with him .
Many people lost their loved ones during the second wave of the coronavirus .
He is a dedicated rugby fan .
His company bought more security equipment to improve its security .
That young man intends to run for the head prefect post .
We grow mushrooms on our farm .
I wrote an article about diabetes in the school newspaper .
His mother asked him why he was involved in the examination malpractice scandal .
Elephants are commonly found in Africa .
It is very possible to be hungry and thirsty at the same time .
It is good to always be patient .
Of what importance is the tail on an animal ?
His compound has many flowers that make it look bushy .
Lions and crocodiles eat warthogs
She managed to heal from all her pain .
He promised to do anything so that his children can have a good life .
Do not trust liars .
She did everything in secret but people still got to know .
The crops were properly spaced in a row .
The cat was moving with its tail lifted .
Some people managed to escape from the burning building .
Why do some animals run with their tails lifted ?
Many folk songs and dances were performed at the music dance and drama concert .
There is a small shop near our house .
The thin man has a small voice .
It is hot outside .
We kept the fish in the fridge .
He ordered strawberry flavored ice cream .
How do you manage your family ?
The thief escaped through the window .
The food did not taste nice today .
The criminal took himself to the police because of his guilty conscience .
The stormy winds destroyed most of her crops in the field .
Her stomach ached after eating food .
Some street children intentionally run away from home .
When the girl got home ,  she removed her school uniform and went to shower .
She ate food and went to sleep .
The old woman takes care of her grandchildren because her son died .
Unlike other grandmothers ,  mine is still very strong and energetic .
Her grandmother taught her how to do house chores .
The jerrycans are all empty .
Nodding the head is a form of nonverbal communication .
All the arrested criminals denied having committed the crimes .
The children were out skipping the rope .
How did she manage to walk on the rope while in space ?
While in courts of law all the witnesses swore to the truth .
As the song played on the radio ,  she sang along .
She mimed the song for the audience .
Something written in a pencil is erasable .
Swahili is the most common language in the East African Community .
Lake Victoria is shared by Uganda ,  Kenya and Tanzania .
He does not like to argue with people .
She studied in a girls' school .
She slid and fell on the wet floor .
The children helped their grandmother with the house chores .
She has a very warm smile .
All her friends attended the wedding .
Why is it so difficult for some people to tell the truth ?
She feels guilty for betraying her sister .
What is the purpose of a bell ?
Farm tools are kept in a dry place so that they do not rust .
What makes us yawn ?
He sold his field to one of the rich men in the area .
Everyone uses their hoe in the garden .
We use hoes to dig in the field .
Most people in her home village are poor .
The villagers helped the elderly woman to weed her field .
What is the purpose of weeding the garden ?
After he received his portion of the land ,  he sold it .
He rested his arms on the chair .
The villagers gather together and drink brewed millet from the pot .
What can one do to overcome the addiction to alcohol ?
What are some of the tools used for weeding ?
She was very happy when she got a new smartphone .
The thief thanked all the villagers for forgiving him .
My sisters always helped me with my assignment .
How do you help people in your community ?
What is the importance of making friends ?
She acquired the piece of land from her grandfather .
My sister and her boyfriend agreed to get married this year .
We ought to love others despite their imperfections .
She burnt all her old clothes .
The woman unintentionally beat her child to death .
The president decided to lock down the whole country because of the pandemic .
You might damage your back if you do not sit upright .
She lied to us that her parents are whites .
We collected the fallen mangoes from the ground .
Some stones are used for decoration .
She went to the salon to wash her hair .
He got rid of all the bed bugs in his house .
The examination will end after three hours from now .
He divorced his second wife .
No people are living at the top of the mountain .
What causes landslides in mountainous areas ?
She wears expensive jewelry .
We broke the big stone into smaller pieces using a hammer .
I fear looking at dead bodies .
What is the most valuable stone on planet earth ?
Uganda is rich in various minerals .
What are some of the safety tips for mountain climbing ?
Most big stones are heavy and immovable .
Eventually ,  everyone reaps what they sow .
The stone landed on his head and crushed him to death .
The truth about the murder case will eventually come out .
He saved her from the rain by giving her an umbrella .
Are ants harmful to people ?
The leaves dry and fall off the trees during the dry season .
The dew left water droplets on the leaves and flowers .
Some people believe that there is life after death .
I must go to work every day .
My grandmother had a strong influence on my early childhood .
We always sweep the house when it is dirty .
Even though she was thirsty ,  she took only two sips of water .
How true is the common saying that water is life ?
What are the sources of water ?
The tree has very many branches .
He walked in the heavy rain .
Why are there waves on the lake ?
He sat down and drank his glass of water .
The little boy grabbed his mother's leg and would not let go .
The bridge was swept away by the heavy water .
People came to save the girl from drowning .
Her neighbors refused to help her .
Some doves were resting on the tree branch .
I will stay here until it stops raining .
Drinking alcohol is dangerous for your health .
What causes flooding of rivers ?
The policeman shot him in the leg .
Doves are a symbol of love and peace .
What will you eat for supper ?
I could not let the boys kill the white dove at my watch .
What can I do to reduce the size of my stomach ?
Where do we find ants ?
How big is your foot ?
The little ant bit him and the skin turned red .
The boy jumped from the second floor of the building .
There is no need to shout when I can hear you .
She threw a stone and the doves on the ground flew away .
He thanked the waiter for the great service .
He is reading a novel on his phone .
The young man was arrested yesterday .
Why did he fall in love with that girl ?
You need to have enough money to carry out a wedding ceremony these days .
How can women prevent unnecessary pregnancies ?
She was born in the forest .
He was working while studying at the same time .
Why do so many relationships end in tears ?
He lives alone in the house .
Heartbreaks cause stress and depression .
She was separated from her mother at the age of four years .
He is planning to wed his new girlfriend .
She died without giving birth to any child .
He did not like his stepfather at all .
She was very unhappy about her academic results .
The children want to live with their real father .
After leaving the miserable marriage ,  she was happy again .
Children learn faster with illustrations .
There is no one like you in this world .
Twins usually resemble each other .
The girls shall talk with their mother .
She has long black hair .
Even in her old age ,  her eyes and ears still function very well .
I have never seen him laugh .
What can the government do to fight against the rising crimes in the country ?
What you cannot do ,  others can do .
Everyone is special in their way .
People find it hard to let go of their past .
She looked at him with keen interest .
She has a skin rash on her face .
He got another wife .
Witchcraft can cause some people to run mad .
What makes her different from the other women ?
The little girl was dressed in torn dirty clothes .
One side of his slippers got torn .
He did not tell anyone that he was leaving .
She prefers to do her work alone .
The children were jumping and clapping while playing .
We should prevent children from eating dirty food .
He had never fallen sick .
Some hospitals do not have adequate medical equipment .
Can someone recover from a mental illness ?
The witch cast a spell on him .
He could not stand by and watch them insult his wife .
Unboiled water is not safe for drinking .
How many maize seasons are there in Uganda ?
The hoes are kept in a dry place so that they do not rust .
He was weeding his flower bed .
She used the bucket to fetch water for use on the farm .
Farmers are advised to sow groundnut seeds in rows putting one seed per hole .
What are the benefits of laughing ?
What activities are involved in taking care of crops ?
Laziness could lead to poverty .
I cannot leave home without taking breakfast .
What kind of music do you dance to ?
Crops growing on a fertile land bear lots of fruits .
People harvest coffee with their hands .
The maize husks looked green and fresh .
Her hair was goldish in color .
What are the benefits of eating groundnuts ?
She played the part of a wicked stepmother in the play .
He has never met his wife's family .
How big is your farm ?
He was very happy to see the work she had done .
The stranger greeted her but she did not answer .
We do not understand why she killed herself .
He was investigating his wife's past .
How do mad people behave ?
I have never seen a mad woman like her in all my life .
Most people in the city no longer use firewood for cooking .
Being a hot day they went down to the river to swim .
He can only swim in a swimming pool .
It was so late for us to go to the church .
She hurried back home to find her young children .
She begged her friend to forgive her for the betrayal .
It was too late for her to travel alone in the night .
In times of calamity ,  foreigners usually travel back to their home countries .
The bride was wearing a silver necklace .
It was too dark for me to see anything in the room .
We switched off the lights while going to bed .
She accidentally knocked her head on the wall .
What do you want me to buy for you on your birthday ?
The dog cannot bite its master .
She made sure that no one sees her while she was entering the shrine .
I have never cooked millet before .
It is the women's obligation to cook food in a home .
Dogs naturally eat small animals like rabbits and hens .
The dogs are tied up in the kennel during the day .
I lay my bed every morning .
He bought a furnished bed from the carpenter .
The maid wakes up very early in the morning to cook breakfast for us .
I rarely visit my friends .
What kind of house chores do you do while at home ?
He cuts off his hair every month .
We kept the broom behind the door .
Running away from your problems is a sign of cowardice .
The police is looking for the murderers .
Where are you studying from ?
He keeps his shoes under the bed .
She has a lot of hair .
There are three cows in the kraal .
People have started up businesses in the village .
He hit her with a big stick on the head and she fainted .
We have never seen each other since last Christmas .
The journey was longer than we thought .
He is currently living in a hotel .
What do you do for a living ?
He does not celebrate his birthday .
She wants to live in the city .
He does not know why his parents do not live together .
He brought for her a cute puppy at home .
Her mother knows all her friends .
Names are used for identity .
My uncle was surprised to know that his wife was cheating on him .
We call her by her first name .
He doesn't have siblings .
When our dog gave birth ,  we sold off the puppies .
Her twin brothers do not resemble each other .
He was very excited to see his brother .
The couple does not talk to each other so often .
She used to keep her money in a wooden savings box .
His assumption was right .
What is involved in looking after a dog ?
What are the benefits of doing body exercises ?
Eating a balanced diet keeps the body strong and healthy .
He could not afford to look after his family .
She asked me to help her nurse her wounds .
He stopped playing at the age of fourteen years .
She refused to smile in the pictures .
She ate very little food at the party .
He was worried about his children's health .
Different organizations have come up to help vulnerable people in society .
When she heard his voice ,  she rushed out of the house to see him .
Why do dogs bark ?
Hugs are a sign of friendship .
He changed his old ways .
My friend is not married .
The man has a big wound on his leg .
He could not stand upright because of his aching back .
He lives with his wife and their three children .
The couple had three sons and one daughter .
What is the name of the company you are working for ?
The duty of the nurse was to take care of the old woman .
His son works for the government .
I admire her beautiful eyes .
We all respected father's decision .
Her parents want a good husband for her .
He was fired from work because he failed to perform his duties .
He used herbal medicine to cure his illness .
Some people believe in evil spirits .
He returned without his car because it had been stolen .
She felt worried that someone might discover her secret .
The fishermen go fishing in the evening .
He forgot to pick his children from school yesterday .
She made up her mind to stop taking drugs .
Most of the furniture is made out of wood .
The old woman uses firewood to cook .
She expressed her gratitude by kneeling down .
What do people get from taking drugs ?
There was a crocodile resting on the shores of the lake .
The children are watching a cartoon movie .
She fell asleep in the car .
When the police were chasing him ,  he decided to dive into the lake .
She was able to swim from one island to another .
He was attacked by evil spirits and died .
She loves listening to gospel music .
Society perceives men as strong and energetic .
Are there any negative effects of using herbal medicine ?
People are scared of losing their lives .
She has a melodious voice .
Most of the songs she has sung were written by other people .
He won the elections because most people in the village knew him .
We were waiting for him at the airport .
Do you think herbs are better than conventional medicine ?
The entire village welcomed the Olympics gold medalist in a special way .
Once you are an adult ,  you are free to do whatever pleases you .
What causes people to become lazy ?
I boiled the tea from the kettle .
The axe is commonly used to cut firewood .
The words of encouragement stirred up her spirit .
I swept and mopped the floor in the morning .
My sister washes the dishes every after a meal .
She always worked hard while her sisters were busy playing .
Look out for friends that shall add value to you .
What is the capital city of Nigeria ?
How is the football game played ?
Ghana and Nigeria are neighboring countries .
Most international footballers have very many fans .
People were very happy when the criminals were arrested .
Invitation cards were given to only close family members and friends .
Fourteen players make up a football team .
How many countries are in Africa ?
Who is your favorite football player ?
He is an experienced footballer .
Is playing football a skill or a talent ?
What countries are in the East African Community ?
He managed to score three goals during the match .
All the players on the same team should be united .
He moved with his family to Rwanda .
During his trip ,  he traveled to different countries .
The goalkeeper must be attentive during the match .
The African continent majorly has black people .
Which part of Uganda is Mountain Rwenzori found ?
Mountains attract tourists into the country .
Most of the things in the shop are expired .
Tortoises have a hard shell on the back .
Her necklace was very beautiful .
There are many baboons in the zoo .
Baboons and chimpanzees look alike .
Some crops don't grow well in rocky areas .
The big tree in the compound was cut down .
What happens when mountains erupt ?
She was wearing a rosary around her neck .
Some trees have very big roots .
His car was crushed in the accident .
Her husband told her to convert to his religion .
Petrol is highly flammable .
Roots hold trees firmly into the ground .
Bush burning is an illegal activity in Uganda .
The roads are very dusty .
The clouds appeared when it was threatening to rain .
What are the benefits of conserving forests ?
She is staying at her friends' home for the time being .
The sky is far above the earth .
At what time do you wake up ?
The students have their breakfast at ten o'clock while at school .
Most schools provide lunch to their students .
The bread got spoilt after four days .
How many slices does a loaf of bread have ?
The table took up most of the space in the room .
I take two spoonfuls of sugar in a cup of milk .
She bought irish potatoes and made chips for herself .
He is worried because things are not going well at his shop .
The discussion that started well ended in an argument .
Most businesses survive on the existence of customers .
The shopkeeper cut down some of the costs in order to attract customers .
She bought lunch from the canteen .
Money must be spent .
She received a letter from her sponsors .
Chips and chicken are the most common snack combination .
The queue in the banking hall was so long .
She waits for her husband to return home every night .
The friends get together once a month to pray .
She frowned her face in disgust .
The men were staring at the beautiful girl .
Some people are worried about the fact that others might become better than them .
The drinks were enough for the invited guests .
He is a very sensitive person .
What items does he sell in his shop ?
We took a photograph of a beautiful parrot at the zoo yesterday .
Some women are attracted to well-dressed men .
That musician sang an inspirational song during the women's day celebrations .
The government has released funds for the construction of a reception office in this game park .
The president has announced that he will not be contesting for another term in office .
That company has appointed a new committee to handle advertising .
She donated five thousand Ugandan shillings from her savings box to support the orphans .
Italy records over one thousand coronavirus cases every day .
There is goat racing at the playground this afternoon .
There are seven games left for the interschool netball league to end .
She resigned from her job because she wants to start a bakery .
My father has been appointed by the president as a member of the court .
The late general died in a car accident this morning .
We grow beans on our farm .
The president announced the new cities during his address this morning .
The elections for city mayors will be held next week .
The police has rescued fifteen young girls who were being trafficked .
The minimum wage for an employee in Uganda is six thousand Ugandan shillings .
The locals planted trees along the riverbank .
There have been many accidents on this road because of the potholes .
The water levels in Lake Victoria are rising because of the recent heavy rains .
The locals lost all their property during the floods yesterday .
The locals were relocated to a safe area because there is a chance of another landslide happening .
He warned the locals that drinking unboiled water would infect them with typhoid .
Polluting the water with chemical waste poisons the water and kills fish .
Some areas in the country are experiencing prolonged famine .
The poachers killed all the white rhinoceroses in this game park .
There have been several floods around the country because of the heavy rains .
The coronavirus was first detected in bats .
My father caught two fish in the river yesterday .
She hopes to be a successful engineer in the future .
My mother donated food to the orphanage yesterday .
The locals are advised to eat a balanced diet to boost their immunity during the pandemic .
The president encouraged the women to start small-scale businesses to support their families .
It was unusual for us to wear face masks before coronavirus affected the world .
This country has many other problems besides the coronavirus pandemic .
That organization has donated a lot of money to support the less privileged during the pandemic .
The school has raised one hundred fifty million Ugandan shillings for a new bus .
That hospital is providing free medical care to flood victims .
She requested the parliament to set strict laws against deforestation .
The roots of the trees hold the soil particles together to prevent soil erosion .
She is raising awareness about protecting the environment from pollution .
Steep slopes have poor soils that are prone to erosion .
Terraces reduce the speed of running water along the slopes .
The government has ordered that anyone found fishing illegally on the lakes should be arrested .
Forests help in rainfall formation which makes our crops grow .
The company has hired two security guards to protect their offices .
There are over one thousand plant species in the world .
The government has put focus on guarding the game parks against poachers .
During the minister's speech ,  he encouraged the locals to protect the environment .
The entire world is currently focused on the fight against the coronavirus .
The students have learned about the dangers of polluting the environment .
She advised the locals to stop cutting down trees for timber .
We planted trees along the roadside .
The article about the dangers of polluting the environment was written by three people .
My parents named me after my late grandmother .
She changed her name when she got married .
He teaches the students over the weekend .
My sister gave birth to her fourth child three weeks ago .
My mother took us to one of the best schools in this country .
Our manager is a mother of three beautiful girls .
My father does not have money to pay our school fees .
I graduated with a degree in engineering .
My husband lost his job three months ago .
Her son died of pneumonia .
My uncle passed away in a car accident yesterday .
The deceased had three children with his wife .
She asked her friend for some money to buy food for her children .
She does not argue with her brother anymore .
Some people lost their jobs during the pandemic .
She borrowed money to pay her husband's hospital bills .
I cannot save any money because I have many expenses to cater for .
She requested her husband to give her more money because she didn't have enough for groceries .
She borrowed money from her friends to pay her bank loan .
The teachers complained that the money they earn is not enough to support their families .
The children will not learn from their mistakes if you don't guide them .
Many people have battled against the virus and recovered .
Some of the locals are living in harsh conditions .
That man does not earn enough money to support his family .
Some families do not have food to eat during this lockdown .
My father has retired from teaching after forty years .
I cannot wear this dress because the zip is broken .
The doctors in public hospitals sometimes work for over twelve hours .
Agriculture has contributed to the growth of Uganda's national economy .
Teachers are among the least paid civil servants in our country .
That department has been allocated more money than ours .
The doctor started a poultry business to make extra money .
That company pays its employees little money .
Piggery is a good business for me to invest in .
Famine hit northern Uganda after the locust invasion .
Our family feeds on the food we grow on our farm .
She uses the little money she earns to feed her children .
The president has ordered the minister of health to increase the salaries of doctors in the country .
The company does not have money to pay employees' salaries .
The government spent a lot of money buying insecticides to spray the locusts .
The company has allocated more money to increase our salaries .
That organization helps teachers to save money for the future .
That man has been living off his pension since he retired from teaching five years ago .
He won the presidential elections because he had many supporters .
She is a very influential woman in this country .
The government has ordered the financial institutions to extend the loan repayment schedules due to the pandemic .
The locals donated money to support teachers who lost their jobs during the lockdown .
The bank reduced the interest rate on business loans to get more clients .
Most people work hard so that they can feed their families .
She has been praying for a new job for two years .
The government has purchased land for the resettlement of the flood victims .
Farmers in the district are counting losses after a prolonged dry spell .
Some parts of the country are experiencing famine .
My mother earns money from passion fruit farming .
He spends a lot of money on pesticides .
The president issued a directive that motorcycles should not carry passengers during the lockdown .
All the crops in the area dried up due to drought .
She resorted to piggery when she lost her job during the pandemic .
The yield of maize this season was very poor for most farmers .
The flood was caused by heavy rain .
The area received a lot of sunshine last season .
The locals said that this area is too dry for yam growing .
Many farmers lost their crops in the flood .
There have been three landslides around this mountain in six months .
The authority responsible for wetlands has banned farming in swamps .
Every morning ,  that girl bypasses the market while on her way to school .
The meeting was chaired by the company manager .
The venue for the wedding ceremony has been changed because of the weather .
Four government officials visited the refugee camp yesterday .
The government has discovered the actual cause of the landslides in this area .
The heavy rain caused the three rivers to flood .
The district does not have enough money to support all the flood victims .
The government has built a dam to prevent this river from flooding .
That company lost property worth three hundred million Ugandan shillings in the floods .
That land has been sold to a foreign investor .
The company that was hired to repair our road did substandard work .
The school council has ordered that the students who abuse school uniforms should be suspended .
The committee gave the district chairperson ten days to submit the details of those affected by the floods .
The prime minister has donated ten million Ugandan shillings towards the victims of the landslide .
The refugees ease themselves in nearby bushes because the camp does not have toilets .
Some of the locals lost their homes after the landslide .
The soldiers threatened to beat anyone found leaving the camp .
There have been many robberies in this area .
The victims of the floods are complaining that the government has neglected their need for safe shelter .
She complained that the village chairperson is considering only his relatives for the relief fund .
The locals requested the government representatives to visit the area that was affected by the flood .
She is a lawyer who fights for the rights of orphans and widows .
The president promised to give each of the victims of the floods one million Ugandan shillings .
That team scored three goals during the match this afternoon .
Their team is in the fourth position at the football league table .
We have no hope of winning the championship title because we have lost six games .
That team has the highest number of points in the international football league .
My brother is sad because his favorite team lost the soccer match .
The coach is worried that his team has not trained well for this game .
Our team scored five goals during the home and away game .
She passed the ball to her teammate who scored the winning goal .
My mother is hosting a party for her friends at our home .
That team lost the match last Saturday .
He is wrestling against one of the biggest men I have ever seen .
He is one of the best football players in this country .
We scored six goals during the match yesterday .
The coach encouraged me to train harder if I want to win the national marathon .
Our netball team has qualified for the interschool finals .
We hope to win the football match today .
I will wash the dishes after lunch .
The deceased was praised for his good work while in the army .
The president encouraged the mourners at the funeral to remain strong .
The deceased will be buried in his ancestral village .
The vehicle carrying the coffin was behind the ambulance .
Our son broke down in tears when he learned about the death of his mother .
There are rumors that his father has coronavirus .
No news reporters are allowed to enter that hospital .
Her family confirmed that she passed away peacefully in her sleep .
The deceased had been battling malaria for three weeks .
Most of the young soldiers look up to him .
The soldier saved his colleague from the rebels during the war .
He fought for the rights of the less privileged in this area .
That general is famous around this village .
We have been friends for over ten years .
My father inspired me to be a doctor .
He sells his trees to lumber companies .
She has planted trees in the land her father left her .
That forest was named after my grandfather .
The deceased was praised for passionately caring about this nation .
The ambulance rushed the accident victims to the hospital .
My son studies at a nearby school .
My brother has joined the army .
The tour guide was good at reading maps .
My father drives the army tanks .
The whole city is under attack from the rebels .
The soldier was captured by the rebels during his scout duty .
She was transferred to another prison because the other inmates wanted to kill her .
He is the first prisoner to be released this morning .
The rebels captured and killed my elder brother .
He joined the rebels to get access to firearms .
The rebels overthrew the government two weeks ago .
The general commanded his soldiers to return to the barracks .
My brother had to get two jobs to make enough money for tuition .
My father is one of the soldiers who will be retiring this year .
My sister quit her job two days ago .
The soldiers signed a five-year contract with the army .
He grows pineapples on one of his farms .
She wrote a story about the president's childhood .
The donation was handed over to the district Member of Parliament this morning .
She urgently needs money for her children's school fees .
The doctors are worried that there is no known cure for this disease .
The minister was standing on the right side of the ambassador in the picture .
The venue for the meeting will be communicated later in the day .
He has a picture of his late mother in his wallet .
The ambassador handed over the cheque to the minister this morning .
The certificate issuing ceremony was held at the ministry offices .
There was a photograph of our teacher in the newspaper today .
The district is training a team of fifty youth on how to spray locusts .
The government is fundraising money to buy insecticides .
He donated food to the farmers whose crops were destroyed by the locusts .
That organization provides free food for the famine victims .
She donated school books to the orphans in her village .
The wind blew the locusts towards our farm .
The desert locusts reproduce faster in a warm climate .
Our neighbors bought insecticide to spray the swarm of bees .
She requested the local council to use the donations to buy vehicles for the locust task force .
She took photographs at the presidential handover ceremony .
The government needs money to buy agricultural equipment for the district teams .
The desert locusts have eaten all the leaves on our crops .
I have renewed my contract with the company .
She took over a hundred pictures at the wedding ceremony .
In the picture ,  there was a mountain behind the river .
The rebels have attacked this village two times .
The government used helicopters to spray insecticides to stop the spread of the locusts .
There is a swarm of bees near that house .
That organization has over two thousand employees worldwide .
My neighbor passed away yesterday .
The protesters requested the government to open the market for business .
Her sister was shot in the chest .
My son was shocked to death by electricity .
The three children died of food poisoning .
My brother is among the protesters who were arrested .
There was a riot in the city this morning .
Some of the vendors accused the local leaders of stealing their money through high taxes .
That school was demolished to build a hospital .
The market was closed for renovations two months ago .
Some of the vendors do not sweep around their stalls .
Her husband succumbed to coronavirus last week .
The government has released money to buy food for the people who were affected by the floods .
The government has banned groups of more than twenty people to prevent the spread of coronavirus .
The news agency reports about events happening all over the world .
My brother died in prison yesterday .
The protesters are fighting for justice for the man who was killed by a police officer .
My mother was buried in a white coffin .
That photograph was taken fifty years ago .
The government has appointed a committee to fight corruption .
I lied to my parents that my little brother spoilt the radio so that they wouldn't punish me .
She carried a picture of her late husband during the riot .
Some politicians do not care about the well-being of their voters .
The priest has condemned the police for using force against peaceful protesters .
Some government officials have been accused of corruption .
My son took a picture of me while I was cooking .
Many people attended my mother's funeral yesterday .
He pledged five million Ugandan shillings to support the family of the deceased .
The priest preached about forgiveness during today's service .
The president should follow up on the issue of corruption with more vigor .
Everyone has a right to live .
The teachers have encouraged us to read hard for the national examinations .
Some soldiers think that they cannot be arrested for their crimes .
The deceased was buried next to his mother .
She took a photograph of the newlyweds .
Fighting the coronavirus will also solve the problem of poverty among the locals .
That knife is sharp enough to penetrate your skin .
We have not made any money because the company has not been operating during the lockdown .
None of the employees was forced to take a pay cut .
The football club has signed new players for this season .
The company has postponed salary payments because there is no money .
We collected money to support my friend's family when they lost their father .
The company has made a big loss this year .
My brother has signed a four-year contract with the national football team .
The basketball game will start at midday .
That team won the international football championship title .
The match was shifted to another stadium because the fans were more than we expected .
The football game might be canceled because of this heavy rain .
The committee has representatives from all the villages in the district .
Fans will not be allowed to enter the stadium during the match .
The match has been postponed because one of the team managers tested positive this morning .
He arrived ten minutes late for the physical training .
All the football players were tested for coronavirus two days ago .
My son's malaria test was negative .
The team captain is in quarantine because he tested positive for coronavirus .
Sports activities were suspended for three months because of the pandemic .
That team will join the losers' league if they do not win this game .
My brother wrote a report about his visit to the landing site .
The lockdown reduced the spread of coronavirus among the locals .
The number of coronavirus cases in the country has reduced .
Two truck drivers tested positive for coronavirus at the border .
The truck he was driving was delivering bricks to that construction site .
Uganda Revenue Authority advertised job opportunities in the newspapers .
The Electoral Commission is recruiting polling assistants in Kampala district .
There is a lot of traffic jam at Namirembe road .
He is the best music artist in Uganda .
One of the mourners pledged to pay school fees for the orphans .
A trading license is obtained at one hundred thousand Uganda shillings .
The company intends to recruit more employees in the marketing department .
The United States of America has the most developed economy in the world .
The Ministry of Education bought laboratory equipment for government schools .
Some teachers do not know how to pronounce his name .
Names help people to understand their family background in society .
Ministry of Health has distributed over five thousand mosquito nets in Eastern Uganda .
The Ministry of Health has provided drugs to people affected by the Ebola virus .
Children should be fed well to avoid malnutrition .
He was one of the country's prime ministers .
Some private schools demand a lot of money from parents .
Some motorists do not respect traffic lights .
Taxis were allowed to carry only seven people during the coronavirus pandemic .
Some people lack funds to facilitate their education .
He has played football since the age of eight .
Some companies reduced the salaries of employees by fifty percent during the lockdown .
He scored the best goal of the German football league this season .
The city council intends to construct more roads in Kampala district .
The best teams in the German football league played against each other on Saturday .
He plays for the best football club in the world .
The best football player in the world cup scored three goals in one match .
The football fans were not happy with the referee's decisions during the match .
Schools will reopen after all teachers have been vaccinated against the coronavirus disease .
Some people cannot afford tuition fees at the university .
He is one of the richest golfers in the world .
Football fans will watch the English Premier League matches from home .
Meat is a source of calcium for the body .
Music artists make most of their money through concerts and performances .
The Ministry of Health aims at providing cheap Medicare for people in rural areas .
Some hospitals in the country lack intensive care unit services .
People should service their cars regularly .
Some people thanked God after surviving the accident .
The Ministry of Health should follow up with truck drivers .
Americans were the first people to reach out to the moon .
That country is surrounded by water .
The government constructed ten football stadiums in different parts of the country .
Agriculture is a source of employment for the people .
Temperature is measured in degrees .
The nervous system helps the brain to communicate with other parts of the body .
Uganda exploits natural resources to boost its economy .
Some teachers have inappropriate relationships with students .
Teachers punish students who do not speak English at school .
The school football team won the Copa Coca Cola championship .
The government provides free land to foreign investors .
The president warned security forces to stop helping criminals .
Fathers should provide for their families .
The headmaster has four children .
Our teacher succumbed to coronavirus .
The doctor has twenty children in eight women .
The presidential election in Burundi was rigged .
People should sanitize and wash their hands regularly .
The government intends to vaccinate twenty-two million Ugandans .
Some people lack food to eat in the lockdown .
The police enforced coronavirus guidelines during the lockdown .
The police keeps law and order in the society .
The organization monitors flights across the country .
The policeman proposed to his girlfriend in front of very many people .
Some men cheat on their wives .
The Ministry of Education and Sports has encouraged vocational training .
The government intends to widen some roads in Wakiso district .
Most boxing clubs in Uganda have registered for the tournament .
The primary seven girl who was found pregnant has been expelled from school .
Golf is one of the most competitive sports in the world .
The lack of enough golf facilities hinders the development of the sport in Uganda .
Each golf team has to register with two hundred thousand Ugandan shillings .
People infected with coronavirus are quarantined for fourteen days .
The sports association gives annual awards to the best sportsmen in the country .
That teacher has a passion for sports and politics .
Rich people take their children to the best schools in the country .
Children from that family resemble each other .
The internet facilitates online education .
The football team generated more revenue after winning the English premier league cup .
The media has displayed various tactics used by criminals to get money .
Parents teach children how to behave in society .
Students sometimes use the internet for research .
The literacy levels in Uganda increased by six percent compared to last year .
Some districts in Uganda do not have referral hospitals .
The president pledged to secure people's futures during the campaigns .
Some farmers lack enough market for their produce .
The government borrowed one billion American dollars to purchase coronavirus vaccines .
Some foodstuffs are contaminated during transportation .
Tanzania attained middle-income status last year .
The president provided land for the establishment of an athlete training facility .
Presidential candidates should observe the standard operating procedures as they go out to campaign .
When sportsmen win international awards ,  they boost the tourism industry in Uganda .
Girls were advised to be aware of men who give them gifts and money .
Some people opened up nightclubs during the lockdown .
The Ministry of Health will receive one million doses of the coronavirus vaccine on Friday .
The government intends to manufacture coronavirus vaccines .
The church provides counseling services to married couples .
Some companies laid-off workers during the lockdown .
European countries provide aid to African countries .
Parents should help children to boost their talents .
She often visited her parents in the village .
She received a birthday gift from her uncle .
We visit our grandmother's grave twice a year .
The master of ceremony invited the graduate's friends to give a speech .
The company finally recognized his hard work .
She went to the hospital yesterday .
I saw her moving alone during the night .
Witnesses at the trial were given police protection .
That is a bad idea to get the drug .
She broke her mother's cup while she was washing utensils .
My best friend has a heart disease .
The thief broke the door and entered the house .
She gave me some orange juice when I was feeling thirsty .
She was very kind to me .
He sold his piece of land .
The farmer watered his crops during the dry season .
I learned how to wash my clothes when I joined boarding school .
Whoever does not obey the school rules will be punished .
You are advised to carry something every time you go to visit people .
Her sponsors gave her everything she needed at school .
He is watching football from the neighborhood .
Nothing can stop me from eating what I want .
She has worked for four months without being paid .
She has spent ten years without seeing her family members .
That girl was allowed to continue with her studies after giving birth .
My mother has gone to the garden to bring food .
He bought a flower and gave it to his fianc on Valentine's day .
Did that man touch you ?
I wish I did not tell him that you were coming .
This year's music video awards were postponed .
She swallows medicine every day .
Kenya has rejected some of Uganda's exports .
Raise your hand if you know the answer .
He was struck by thunder .
I need to hurry back home before it gets dark .
It has started raining .
He slipped on the wet floor and fell .
He hit me with a stone .
She fell in the road ,  and the crowd gathered around him .
A lot happened to me during that short holiday I spent in the village .
She fell and knocked her head .
My aunt recovered from her illness .
Her parents abandoned her at a young age .
I was told to write down the names of my brothers and sisters .
My brother will get married to his wife next weekend .
My decision to repeat senior six was to improve on my grades .
She will begin going to school next year .
Our next meeting will be held on Tuesday .
I love reading storybooks .
A family that prays together stays together .
He has a dream of traveling to America .
He plays the piano in our church .
She is as beautiful as her mother .
Some journalists were arrested for lodging with Afghan women .
She lived alone in the village for many years .
He started rearing chicken in the lockdown after losing his job .
Our cock crows every morning as the sun begins to rise .
She was happy to see her children again .
That girl talks too much .
He was accused of murdering his brother because of land .
I met one of my old school girls today .
What has happened to the children ?
Tenants should pay their rent on time .
The work was finished on time .
Where are you going at this time ?
Did you come while running ?
Can I join the church choir ?
I have walked a long distance to reach here .
The police used sniffer dogs to search for the suspects .
He fired some of his workers that used to come late .
My brother advised me to apply for an engineering course at the university .
I am going to study in Italy .
He passed the job interview .
We will set off for Masaka tomorrow morning .
My father was promoted to the rank of major general .
My boss' daughter excelled in her senior six exams .
I broke my right arm in the accident .
My young brother refused to wash the plates .
She accepted the job offer .
The house is filled with darkness .
He built his parents a four-roomed house .
The minister stopped the eviction of people during the lockdown .
I say my prayers before going to bed .
It rained heavily during the night .
The class monitor has pinned the sweeping Rota .
A Ugandan was killed in Rwanda last month .
He is applying for a government scholarship .
He is planning to divorce his wife .
He sang in a loud voice .
The judge found him guilty of stealing government money .
Namboole stadium is being used as a treatment center for coronavirus patients .
I found them serving food .
The children went to sleep after eating .
Many schools increased their fees for the new term .
He has stayed in Kampala city for a very long time .
Their boss warned them against coming late to work .
He did not close his door at night .
Banks operate from Monday to Saturday .
What is the depth of this lake ?
This is my first time visiting Kasese district .
We packed our bags the night before .
My cousin spends his Christmas holidays with us every year .
We have a meeting scheduled for ten o'clock on Wednesday morning .
My younger son can count from one to a hundred .
In boarding schools ,  children sleep in dormitories .
Our new stock of clothes will arrive tomorrow .
Please wipe your feet on the doormat before you come inside the house .
My uncle was very happy when his son got a scholarship to study in Canada .
My mother enjoys the frequent visits of her grandchildren .
Our offices are open from Monday to Friday .
These earrings were a gift from my aunt .
The priest blessed the offering during the Sunday service .
My brother enjoys playing tennis .
He was the first journalist to be elected as a Member of Parliament .
Do not forget to return the library books .
She will be completing her degree next year .
A fundraising drive was held to raise money for cancer screening .
I had to fetch water from the well .
The bus conductor collected money from the passengers .
My grandmother knits sweaters for us .
The farmer fenced his land with barbed wire .
The teacher was angry at the students' misconduct in the class .
The thief threatened the shopkeeper with a gun .
Some bags are made of leather .
The children have to help their parents with housework .
I bought a bar of soap .
The price of petrol is rising .
I talked to one of my wealthy customers yesterday .
He has taken over his father's business .
Our school has been in existence for fifty years .
Do you have this sweater in red ?
I have packed for you some food for the journey .
He is a proud father of five girls .
Street children survive by begging and stealing .
My father drives a very old car .
I would like to visit Queen Elizabeth national park .
She accused him of stealing her bicycle .
There was a huge pothole in the road .
He fell into the swimming pool and drowned .
The children started crying when their parents left .
The high court reserved its decision on that case .
Pig farming is widely carried out in all regions of Uganda .
My neighbor has earned a lot of money from pork roasting .
I looked after her child when she was away on a business trip .
I passed my driving test .
Have you heard the latest news ?
How can I start a piggery business ?
The most common breed of pigs in Uganda is the large black .
I am learning to ride a bicycle .
What time do the fireworks start ?
There is freedom of expression in Uganda .
We ate fruits after dinner .
The constitution gives the president power to select his cabinet .
The government is planning to reduce its public spending .
He works as a cook at our school .
Our father started a family business and we work together .
He was killed in a car accident .
She is such a talented dancer .
The protesters burnt buildings and set cars on fire .
Children often rub their eyes when they are tired .
She will appear before the magistrate tomorrow .
The referee blew the final whistle and the game ended .
We fetch firewood from the forest .
A crowd gathered around the accident scene .
He is a very cunning man .
I meet many different people in my line of work .
I was caught in traffic this morning .
I can speak six languages .
The project has insufficient funds .
She dried her hair in the sun .
Many people in rural areas face the problem of poverty .
I gave her all the money I had .
She jumped from the second floor of the building and died .
I fell asleep while listening to the radio .
Children should be kept away from the fire while cooking .
The cause of the fire is still unknown ?
He enjoys folk songs .
She whispered something in his ears .
I received her letter the other day .
He was declared the fastest runner in the world .
She sings in nightclubs .
Who stole my money ?
A leap year has three hundred sixty-six days .
The old man caught a big fish .
I hate that song .
The college principal promised to look into the matter .
I went to the salon to cut my hair .
Food is a basic need in Uganda .
He sent in his apologies for not attending the meeting .
The hunters chased the buffalo into the trap .
He is one of the fastest runners in the world .
She lived alone for many years .
The hunters use traps while hunting .
She wanted to buy a car but she had no money .
The sky was filled with stars at night .
She is a mother of three children .
She cried out in pain when her two-year-old son died .
She worked as a nurse in the hospital .
Our town was once visited by the president .
My parents share responsibilities at home .
He has three older sisters .
She wore a sweater because it was cold outside .
She always greets customers with a smile .
His wounds were gradually healing .
Did you reach home safely ?
Please help me clean the house .
What are you thinking about ?
The movie was acted based on a true story .
Can you give me a lift to town ?
The children played in the rain .
Social gatherings were banned due to coronavirus .
I bought my son a storybook .
The Karamojong were told to hand over their guns to the military .
He wore his best clothes to the interview .
My father has never been sick in his life .
You should listen to the advice of your elders .
She painted a picture of her mother .
The Olympic Games unite people of all nations .
Uganda has many rivers .
The thief hid in the forest when the police was searching for him .
That bank is guarded day and night .
When the ice melts ,  it becomes water .
He owns shares in that company .
How did he behave towards you ?
The company owes money to more than three banks .
Ice cream has different flavors .
The landlord came to collect the monthly rent .
A security guard was killed during the bank robbery .
She has known him since childhood .
What type of music do you listen to ?
My brother is fond of pointing out my mistakes .
She agreed to marry him .
Can I have something to drink ?
He was lying on the sofa watching television .
He threw stones at the dog .
Watching documentaries can be very educational .
He joined the football team to please his father .
That old chair should be thrown away .
How did the accident happen ?
He is a qualified doctor .
The floods in Kasese district destroyed the nearby villages .
The police rarely shoot to kill .
River Nile flows northwards to Sudan .
The teacher told us an interesting story in class .
He decided to write a book on his initial research .
I am often scared to try out new things .
I make monthly payments on the loan .
The rainbow has eight colors .
I constantly have to be reminded of how to pronounce her name .
What flavor of ice cream do you like ?
Her mother died when she was ten years .
The storybook has a sad ending .
My grandmother babysits my younger brother when my parents are at work .
My extended family usually gets together during the Christmas holidays .
At the Olympics ,  different people participate in the different games .
Did you have a good time at the party ?
My grandmother is sick .
My aunt is an actress .
We felt sad about his death .
She allowed him to stay for a few more days .
The robbers wore masks to hide their faces .
His friends hid him from the police .
Where do you come from ?
Are there any vacant rooms in this hotel ?
I have a cat as a pet .
I planted flowers in my compound .
Would you mind if I closed the window ?
He puts his dirty clothes in the basket .
The performers were waiting behind the curtain .
He drew a picture of his wife .
She is five and a half months pregnant .
I arranged the books on the shelves .
She comes from a musical family .
She works for a company that publishes reference books .
I owe you an apology .
Pink is my favorite color .
Do you need any help ?
Innocent people were killed in Masaka district .
He fought for his country .
Our television license expires next month .
Most elderly people are on medication .
I congratulate you on passing the exams .
My phone was stolen .
He is looking forward to starting his new job .
My wall clock is five minutes behind .
Let me introduce you to my parents .
How long have you been married ?
Social distancing has to be maintained to prevent the spread of coronavirus .
Do not despise others because they are poor .
The doctor diagnosed him with food poisoning .
The authorities urged everyone to keep calm .
She is envied by many of her peers .
She is a mother to twins .
Many African parents have more than three children .
He insisted that communication within a family is important .
Agriculture is a common economic activity in Uganda
Our village does not have piped water .
The president commended civil servants for their hard work .
Many Ugandans are underpaid .
She received a great pay raise this year .
The change in seasons confused farmers on when to plant their crops .
The students were told not to play around rivers without adult supervision .
Most of the people who were invited to the wedding have confirmed their attendance .
He died in the hospital last night .
Swarms of locusts are destroying crops in Northern Uganda .
The presidential elections were postponed by three months .
The president paid his respects to the lives that were lost in the bombings yesterday .
More than half of the students are down with a cold .
Their coach assured them that they would be more than ready for the match on Monday .
Many Ugandans are leaving the country in search of a better life .
She said patient information is confidential .
We live next to each other .
He will be competing in the swimming competition again for the first time in five years .
The winner of the debate competition will travel to Burundi for the next stage .
Companies should encourage their workers to carry out regular health checkups .
Many youths don't have fishing skills .
Those are the two teams that qualified for the football final match .
Most football teams did not make it to the next round .
Tourism is a source of employment .
Most of the houses were destroyed in the floods last week .
The hotel manager denied having received any money from the customers .
Motorcyclists complained that the newly enforced curfew reduces their hours of operation .
That man was arrested for physically assaulting a policeman .
This is their first time to win in this competition .
The president said the elderly will be a priority during the distribution of the coronavirus vaccines .
There is a shortage of blood in the hospital blood bank .
Women lose some blood after giving birth .
Many foreign countries donate funds to African countries .
The police was instructed to arrest people moving without face masks .
The president died in his sleep .
The government should ensure that all foodstuffs sold in markets are safe .
The Olympic games have to be postponed for health reasons .
She said her opponent is a very tough competitor .
Voters have the right to vote in a free and fair election .
Children should be taught to help the needy .
Many cultural practices are ignored these days .
More than half of the country's population is below the poverty line .
This year's election has many new candidates .
The school banned the bribing of school staff and students .
He died of a heart attack this morning .
Concerts will now be held online .
The band was praised for its good music .
Teenagers should be taught to respect their parents .
Child labor is a crime punishable by the law .
There are many hair salons in this area .
There is a lot of congestion in some parts of the city .
She considers herself a very brilliant girl .
The winning team was three points ahead of my team .
The government suspended concerts because of the pandemic .
Drug abuse has led to many deaths in the entertainment industry .
The journalist that covered the president's swearing-in ceremony did a good job .
Chiefs and kings are buried in tombs .
She thanked us all for honoring her invitation to her wedding .
More than half of the voters voted for her .
She is greatly loved by her grandchildren .
She was a teacher for forty years .
All teachers in that school teach at least two subjects .
People still talk about him decades after his death .
She said Paris is a beautiful city .
He described himself as a fun-loving man .
He was one of the soldiers in that rebel group .
His death will affect not only his family but the entire community .
The minister urged employers to be patient with workers during this trying time .
This company opened up a branch in my village .
There were many witnesses at the crime scene .
The church should welcome people regardless of their financial standards .
He is a very talented singer .
Everyone in the audience loved his performance .
Women work twice as hard to earn the same respect as men .
Many men watch football religiously .
The chief has a lot of influence in the village .
Some children drop out of school because their parents cant afford to pay school fees .
She has no interest in getting a second degree .
Teaching has always been a passion .
She is a well-known marriage counselor .
She encouraged women to leave abusive relationships .
The district leaders discouraged the people from cutting down trees .
She has very long hair .
Women and men have different color choices .
Students were advised to spend their holidays fruitfully .
The teachers asked the school administration for laptops .
All the men present were tested for prostate cancer .
Parents should be mindful of how they treat their children .
He cautioned policemen against receiving bribes .
She told the investigators that they were incompetent .
The mayor announced the winners immediately after the race .
He said he would do anything to retain his seat .
The opposition leaders are not happy with the current government .
She portrays him as an outsider .
Parliament has passed a law on children's rights .
He sent armed men to kill his rival .
She keeps holding onto the past .
The constituency has one thousand voters .
The police officer was arrested for violating human rights .
She tortured her stepson to death .
The woman in the seat behind me was breastfeeding .
He played a key role in the movie production .
The road has a poor drainage system .
The hotel was closed because it had no proper sanitation facilities .
The clinic provides free health care to the elderly .
The opposition expected to win the election .
The dentist confirmed our appointment .
He chose not to comment about her dress code .
She is an independent woman .
The candidates were delighted that the public came to cheer them on .
My son is very confident .
The milkman is friendly with his customers .
The children listened to the speaker for a little while but then lost interest .
The youths are energetic .
Some people still work from home because of coronavirus .
She sells bananas in the trading center .
He promised to give jobs to unemployed youths .
Some children are eagerly waiting for schools to open .
Sometimes families controlled religious functions .
My father enjoys listening to radio talk shows .
She went to his house to ask for child support .
Pigs play in muddy paddles .
Some voters were not happy with the outcomes of the election .
Their family is united .
Twenty percent of the country's population are youths .
He is planning for his trip to Uganda .
She is chaotic but funny .
I love smelling good .
He was bitten by mosquitoes when they went camping .
He speaks ill of his elder brother .
I could not participate in the elections because I was sick .
He didn't like the idea of forming a pressure group .
She is preparing for an online interview .
The lawyer and his client quarreled over the issue of money .
They wake up earlier than us .
He likes her voice .
Her son hugs strangers .
My daughter loves cuddles .
Infants are cared for by their parents .
Babies have cute smiles .
Her father soothed her with a song .
My baby woke up in a good mood today .
Parents give their children hugs as soon as they come home .
He wrapped his little arms around his mother .
My friend gave me a comforting hug when she came to see me in the hospital .
Parents enjoy being around their children .
She loves her sisters so much .
My children smile when I hug them .
Vision can be restored if the fault is detected at an early stage .
Her heart rate went up when the doctor walked into the room
She has difficulties in breathing .
Their relationship started with a hug .
Abortion is dangerous .
Parents should talk to their children about the danger of having sex before marriage .
She is pregnant again .
She is afraid of staying in the house alone .
Should sex education be done at school or at home ?
The government has imposed curfew in the country .
She wants to talk to a counselor .
The country has a high population growth .
Young people need support from their parents .
Students are always encouraged to work very hard .
The girls in Northern Uganda were given reusable sanitary pads .
The social stigma around it is heavy .
Contraceptives should be affordable .
Youth should be encouraged to always work very hard .
Sports education can be part of the school curriculum .
Some people in villages have no access to family planning services .
He was arrested for sexual abuse .
Condoms are cheap and easy to access .
Our family doctor is very friendly .
She is interested in family planning .
Many girls have dropped out of school because of unwanted pregnancies .
In some countries ,  abortion is illegal .
The book can be read by high school students studying history .
She could not tell her mother that she was pregnant .
Her best friend was also her matron at the wedding .
The procedure took four hours .
Some girls have basic knowledge about contraceptives .
Parents interact with teachers during visitation day .
She started using birth control pills after her first baby .
Parents and teachers should teach children morals .
Women were encouraged to talk about contraception .
Adults are allowed to join the mountain biking activities .
Do you know his name ?
The headteacher encourages students to clean the classroom every day after class .
Some children love reading storybooks .
The boxes are too heavy for them to carry .
Her uncle is a policeman .
Attach copies of your academic documents to the application .
The kidnappers tortured him before dumping him in the forest .
He murdered his wife .
The secretary looked through the file before giving it to her boss .
He pleaded guilty to three robberies .
He was denied bail .
Justice was served .
The old woman uses a stick to support herself .
Happy Father's Day to all the fathers in the world .
My daughter likes to play with dolls .
Her father listened carefully to her graduation speech .
After the separation ,  she decided to raise her children alone .
We visit our relatives during the holidays .
He requested for more time to finish the assignment .
I brought her chocolate as a gift .
She planted roses in her compound .
Her father is very important to her .
Five schools participated in the swimming competition .
She is getting ready for the party .
The farmer has a small tractor .
Her father always picks her up from school .
They saw mountain gorillas at the zoo .
Tourism is an adventure in Uganda .
The sword is made of steel .
I have great memories of high school .
He invited us for tea at his house .
The forest has many trees .
She waited for her children at the airport .
He speaks with a lot of confidence .
Some people use their hands to eat food .
The police officer is controlling the traffic .
He missed the flight .
I drink more water during the day .
The vehicle is due for service .
He has some money in his pocket .
My grandmother is afraid of heights .
The meeting is about to end .
The photographers were asked to turn off the camera flashlights while shooting .
She was too tired to eat food .
She gave him a curious look because she doesn't trust him .
My mother told me that sharing is caring .
He fell and hurt his head .
The children could not play from outside because of the muddy ground .
They moved from one village to another looking for food .
Police protected him from the angry mob .
She broke down when they gave her the sad news .
All his wives respect him .
He attacked him with a spear .
He wanted to talk to the press but they stopped him .
My mood has changed .
We started eating food at midday .
The hall is currently booked .
Let us listen to the advice from the expert .
What happens when the goods get spoilt while in transit ?
The teacher is dictating notes for his students .
The new president was sworn in under heavy security .
Authorities described the youth as trouble makers .
He was in the hospital for two weeks .
My sister invited her friends to her wedding .
He was a powerful leader .
The accountant was accused of fraud .
The speaker requested all community leaders to stand up .
Her son had planned to take her for a walk .
Burundi is a small country .
I believe in God .
They staged a number of protests during his regime .
They committed many crimes during the war .
The constitution was changed to allow the president to run for another term .
They attended his funeral .
Many people have recovered from coronavirus in Uganda .
India had many cases of coronavirus .
He was hospitalized because he couldn't breathe well .
The medical report was given to the family .
The hospital beds are full .
The university hospital gives first aid to students .
They flew out of the country .
The truck drivers were told to avoid over speeding .
The message was translated into different languages .
They restricted access to the laboratory .
He sells masks on the streets of Kampala .
They have a discussion group .
He betrayed his country .
The results were not accurate .
They took samples of the soil to the laboratory .
The health official encouraged residents to practice social distancing .
He took time off to recover from the infection .
Her parents are in danger .
The vehicle was stolen from him .
Children are forced into child labor to get food .
Young people have lost hope in education .
Some people sleep hungry because they have no food .
His family lived in poverty for over five years
His wife comes from a rich family .
Her guardian lost his job during the lockdown .
The passengers said the driver seemed to be drunk .
Many children know how to read and write .
That priest has appealed to the government to repair the roads in our village .
This landslide was caused by the heavy rains last night .
Most of the people in that district rely on farming as a source of income .
The new building at our school has cracks .
That house has deep cracks in the walls .
The swimming pool for adults is two meters deep .
There is a crack in the windshield of my car .
This corridor is at least ten meters long .
We have morning prayers at our church .
The residents are worried that the cracks in the soil are a sign of an oncoming landslide .
Onions are grown on a large scale in the Southwestern part of Uganda .
People cut down trees for timber .
My mother cleared that land to plant maize .
Onions take around four months to mature .
The government has donated tree seedlings to many farmers in this country .
My father has planted three mango trees in his compound .
Landslides are common in mountainous areas because their soils are weak .
That scientist has studied the history of how rocks were formed for ten years .
The district commissioner confirmed that there is no oil mining in this area .
The mountain will never erupt again .
There is a poor communication network in this area because of the mountain .
There are some corrupt officials in the district court .
This building will collapse if these cracks are not repaired .
There is a waterfall on that mountain .
These slopes have fertile soil which is good for farming .
Trees hold the soil particles firmly together to avoid cracks that may cause a landslide .
The soil in this area is sandy .
That district has no official headquarters .
She was very angry with her landlord for disconnecting the electricity in her house .
The locals complained that the government has not helped the flood victims .
Our house was one of those that were destroyed in the landslide .
The manager hasn't given me feedback about the project proposal I submitted last week .
I was stranded when my landlord ordered me to leave his house .
I didn't want to live with my brother because it would inconvenience his family .
The flood victims have agreed to move to a resettlement camp in a nearby district .
My father plans to build our family house on the plot of land he bought yesterday .
My sister has refused to shift to a new house .
The landslide victims refused to leave this area because their relatives are buried there .
The prime minister sent ten million Ugandan shillings to support the family of his late driver .
Some government officials have come to assess the damage done by the landslide .
Some of the locals have been relocated to another area because of the floods .
My brother stays with me because he got evicted from his house .
That man is an accountant by profession .
That minister has advised the government to purchase land for the resettlement of the flood victims .
The landlord advised him to live somewhere else until the renovations on his house are complete .
The deceased's relatives chased his children out of the house .
I went to live with my sister because my house was destroyed by the fire .
The government distributed posho and beans to the less privileged citizens during the pandemic .
The people have accused their leaders of embezzling the relief funds meant to help them through the pandemic .
Scientists have discovered that this mountain is over twenty million years old .
These landslides occurred in the Eastern region of the country .
That mountain is surrounded by a dense forest .
Mountain Elgon is located on the border of Uganda and Kenya .
There have been at least twenty landslides in that area in the past one hundred years .
Twenty people were buried in the landslide .
There has not been a landslide in this area for ten years .
The number of deaths related to the landslide is high because this area is overpopulated .
The people in that area circumcise young boys as part of their culture .
The wedding committee wanted to know how she spent the money on food .
The school management has set aside twenty million Ugandan shillings to fund the annual sports day .
Our manager gave a brief report about the company to the sponsors during the meeting .
That waitress insisted that she did not receive any money from the customer .
My husband gives me money every Saturday to buy home foodstuffs .
The car bond owner agreed that I can pay for the car in five installments .
That orphanage did not receive any donations during the pandemic .
This hospital pays doctors according to the number of patients they treat in a month .
I spend my salary on rent and food .
Some people are complaining that the government doesn't support local football clubs .
We used some of the money to pay the caterer at our wedding .
The government promised to give the national football team fifty million Ugandan shillings .
Some of this money will be deducted as a transaction charge .
The government will not release funds for repairing this road .
Some of the people have not received the money that the government promised to give them .
That country has reported an increase in the number of coronavirus patients .
I was so upset when I tested positive for coronavirus .
My daughter sings in the church choir every Sunday .
There are over forty coronavirus patients in this hospital .
My father was taken into quarantine so that he wouldn't infect the rest of the family .
The president encouraged the citizens to stay home so as to protect themselves against coronavirus .
That building is guarded by ten police officers .
Most of the people in this country use taxis to go to work .
I went to the supermarket to buy milk .
The baker used a motorcycle to deliver my birthday cake because of traffic jam .
She drives her car to work every day .
The president promised that the government would support the vulnerable poor citizens during the pandemic .
She packed all the clothes in her boutique yesterday .
The furniture store did not operate during the lockdown .
This donation will help single mothers who cannot afford to take care of their families .
My poultry business made losses during the pandemic .
The village chairperson submitted a list of the vulnerable people who are eligible to receive the relief funds .
That Member of Parliament contributed fifty million Ugandan shillings towards the construction of the new hospital .
The patient started showing symptoms of coronavirus four days after exposure .
We called an ambulance to rush my wife to the hospital when she was in labor .
The government appointed this committee to assist the landslide victims .
That hospital operates day and night because it receives many patients .
The ambulance driver was arrested for taking money from patients before taking them to the hospital .
The president criticized our district chairperson for slapping one of the other district officials .
The police has direct orders from the president to arrest anybody found moving at night .
Coronavirus can be spread through handshakes .
Doctors are required to wear gloves when examining patients .
My mother bought two pineapples from the market .
Markets remained open during the lockdown so that people could buy food .
That hospital has run out of face masks for doctors .
The nurse was scared to treat the patient because she thought that she would contract coronavirus .
Doctors should wear face masks and gloves to protect themselves against coronavirus .
Testing a large group of coronavirus patients at once causes infection of those who are negative .
Curfew starts at seven o'clock in the evening .
The president said that private vehicles should carry only two passengers .
My brother's car was confiscated by the police because he was driving while drunk .
She followed the doctor's instructions and started eating more fruits .
She slapped her husband out of anger .
Some officials use government vehicles for leisure purposes .
The doctors showed us how to properly wear face masks for full protection against coronavirus .
That man is the police spokesperson in this region .
That man was arrested for stealing my phone .
One of the witnesses told the police that the accident happened at midnight .
That police officer disobeyed the president's orders by not wearing a mask while talking to me .
There will be a meeting for all district officials on Friday .
The residents were surprised when the district chairperson told them to ignore the president's orders .
She has not played netball in three months because of the injury on her shoulder .
The national basketball competitions will start on Friday .
Today's football match ended without any injuries .
My parents are coming back from the village next week .
That team is in the third position in the national football league .
The opponent's football team has fifteen players .
The coach asked all the football players to run three laps around the field .
That team has substituted players three times during this netball game .
My mother stood behind me in the line at the bank .
My daughter was the twelfth student to arrive at the school yesterday .
There is a football match between the two best teams in this league tonight .
My brother plays for the local football team .
Football supporters will have to watch this season's league from their homes .
That football player will return to the field after three months of suspension .
There are no people in this building .
I found my brother playing a football game on his computer .
The fans shouted in excitement when that player scored his third goal .
All the football players who were not on the field were expected to wear masks and gloves .
The rioters dispersed when the police arrived .
That football club was founded one hundred thirty years ago .
My brother wore a t-shirt of his favorite football team .
Our family holds prayers in honor of our deceased mother every year .
We all clapped for the manager for the good work she has been doing in the restaurant .
That player was replaced during the match because he was tired .
The entire team is very happy about winning the international football league .
That man beat his daughter until she fainted .
Our mission is to support single mothers to start small businesses to support themselves .
That bank has over fifty branches across the country .
The organization distributed food to the vulnerable people in the community .
Some children do not have food to eat because their parents are poor .
That company has donated ten thousand masks to the government .
She submitted the house plans to her client yesterday .
The photographer took a picture of the children while they were on their way to school .
That organization aims to support children who dropped out of school during the pandemic .
Many families lost their loved ones to coronavirus .
The students need computers to access their online lessons .
Many people were left jobless during the pandemic .
That foundation supports widows and orphans .
This project is being implemented in seventy countries .
There was an increase in the number of domestic violence cases reported during the lockdown .
The government has requested for donations to purchase coronavirus vaccines .
My wife may die if she does not get a blood transfusion in time .
My daughter needs a blood transfusion urgently because she is severely anemic .
The hospital needs blood to transfuse these car accident victims .
There will be a blood donation drive at the school playground tomorrow .
Blood can be stored in a medically approved refrigerator for up to thirty five days .
My father was transfused with artificial blood while the doctors tried to find a suitable donor for him .
I donated blood for my sister because we have the same blood group .
My sister works in a hospital laboratory .
Pregnant women are not allowed to donate blood .
My neighbor lost a lot of blood during labor which led to her death .
She thanked the firefighters who saved her life .
There were drops of blood on my shirt after the nosebleed .
Very few people donated blood last year .
Doctors have encouraged the youth in this area to donate blood at least once a year .
This new road has eased the transportation of farmers' goods to the market .
I inherited this plot of land from my late father .
The building housing the office of the president was built by a Chinese company .
The Chinese government has donated a lot of money towards infrastructure development in Africa .
Some Americans have insisted that the coronavirus is a chemical weapon manufactured by the Chinese .
Those two construction companies are competing for a contract to build the new road .
The government has encouraged its citizens to work hard and make money instead of participating in riots .
The Chinese government insisted that they did not manufacture the coronavirus to attack America .
Other countries are not interested in the war between China and America .
Her husband accused her of stealing money from his wallet .
Some of the older students at school like bullying the younger ones .
My mother sent my brother to spy on me at the party .
There is an army barracks in that village .
Uganda was colonized by the British for sixty-eight years before she got her independence .
That organization sent spies to our company to find out if we are competing against them .
That opposition party is funded by a big international organization .
The rebels fought hard to overthrow the dictator who was oppressing his citizens .
That country has set tough conditions for us to achieve before we can receive a donation from them .
She reported her husband to her family because he was forcing her to change her religion .
The neighboring countries will be affected economically if a war broke out in this country .
The company director has been spying on the employees for a long period of time .
That country is one of the most prosperous countries in the world .
Our company is targeting fresh graduates for the new jobs .
Some people in rural areas do not receive good health care .
My mother raises money for our school fees by selling bananas from her farm .
Some of the roads in this country are in a bad condition .
Her family condemned her for getting pregnant when she is still in school .
We can preserve the environment by planting trees .
That is the journalist who wrote the article about our village .
Many taxi drivers are not following the president's directive of carrying only eight passengers .
The police have set up a roadblock to track the prisoner who escaped from jail .
That motorcycle rider was arrested for carrying two passengers .
I took a picture with my parents at my graduation ceremony .
Any taxis found carrying more than eight passengers will be impounded by the police .
He photographed the police officers during the training .
All passengers in taxis are required to wear face masks .
The president's swearing-in ceremony will be held on Friday .
The deceased was fifty five years old .
Our district Member of Parliament promised to repair the broken bridge during his campaigns .
There will be a fifteen minute interval between these two court cases .
The new Members of Parliament will be sworn in today .
The president of that country has passed away .
She has been the president of this country for fifteen years .
Many people lost their lives in the rebellion against the ruling government .
The opposition political parties are worried that the ruling party may win the elections .
That organization fights for the rights of the oppressed citizens of this country .
She has decided not to contest for school head prefect .
My son is a big fan of this musician .
My grandfather chose his second son to take over his poultry business .
The king has chosen his eldest son to be his heir .
The manager of that bank has been accused of fraud .
The new company manager is more understanding than the former one .
That man escaped from the rebels this morning .
My sister is in trouble for dodging school today .
That country has a population of twelve million people .
We announced our father's death over the radio .
That country has pledged to support our new president in his service .
Our president is a religious man .
All the mourners were asking how the deceased died .
The family of the deceased has announced that the mayor will be buried tomorrow .
She pledged to pay the school fees of her late brother's children .
The deceased died of a heart attack .
My wife has spent three weeks in this hospital .
Four students in our class have tested positive for coronavirus .
That woman died of breathing complications from coronavirus .
The director of that hospital was put on oxygen because he wasn't breathing properly .
My mother died on the way to the hospital .
Some people think that coronavirus is just a rumor spread by the government .
That man's wife has succumbed to coronavirus .
The hospital has admitted six new cases of coronavirus .
The residents are not allowed to leave their homes until the lockdown is lifted .
That man was the first coronavirus case in this country .
China has been under total lockdown for a year .
There should be a testing center for coronavirus at the airport .
There is a high rate of coronavirus infections around marketplaces .
She went to the market to buy foodstuffs for her daughter's birthday party .
We saw many police officers around the market today .
My father sells fish in the market .
That school was closed because three students tested positive for coronavirus .
The schools in Uganda have been closed since April because of the pandemic .
According to some scientists ,  coronavirus can stick to plastic surfaces for three days .
Some of the vendors in this market have tested positive for coronavirus .
Two doctors check on that patient every thirty minutes .
The office premises were disinfected in order to kill the coronavirus .
The mayor has announced that she will seek re-election next year .
My mother is sixty seven years old .
She studied from abroad .
The international sports competitions were canceled because of the pandemic .
This is the first swimming competition in this country from the time the lockdown was lifted .
Our parents warned our sister against postponing her wedding twice .
The government has encouraged its citizens to observe the standard operating procedures .
That woman sells her rice at a cheap price .
The advancement in the health care system has facilitated the provision of more effective medical solutions .
Some countries didn't implement the lockdown measure as a mitigation to the pandemic .
The government believes that the lockdown has helped in reducing the spread of coronavirus .
The netball match that was scheduled for tomorrow has been postponed because of the pandemic .
She encourages her children to take their studies seriously .
The doctor said that he could not tell if I have coronavirus without testing me .
She reduced the price of her eggs so that she could get more customers .
The nurse took a sample of my blood to the laboratory to test for malaria .
Doctors have advised us to social distance to protect ourselves against coronavirus .
The directors will have a meeting tomorrow to determine if the company is performing as expected .
That man is the best swimmer in the world .
More people have succumbed to coronavirus during the second wave than in the first wave .
The wedding was postponed because the groom was involved in a car accident .
That organization hasn't decided whether they will continue to sponsor our rugby team or not .
That district has organized a fundraising ceremony to raise money for a new bridge .
The new governor will serve in his office for the next four years .
Everybody expects my sister to be the next prime minister of this country .
Most women do not express themselves freely because they are scared that society will judge them .
That scientist has done thorough research about the coronavirus .
There are eight candidates in the presidential race .
Our district chairperson has declared that this will be his last term in office .
We are happy to receive the news about our daughter's engagement .
The board of directors secretly voted my father out of his company .
We hardly see our father nowadays because he is busy with his campaigns .
Those two organizations held a conference to discuss how they can work together .
Many people have been struggling to service their bank loans during this pandemic .
Some financial institutions charge unreasonably high interest rates on loans .
Tourism has contributed to the growth of Uganda's revenue .
My brother took a year off school to travel around the world .
My mother reduced my pocket money because I failed the midterm examinations .
The insurance company paid for my father's hospital bills .
She is saving money to start her own business in the future .
Doctors around the country have teamed up to strike for higher pay .
She is ninety days overdue on her bank loan .
Businesses must do research about their customers' needs to be successful .
Some of the employees have agreed to work together on the new project .
There are many oil reserves in Western Uganda .
This company produces petroleum jelly for all skin types .
She got a loan from the bank to pay her children's school fees .
Customers are charged transaction fees when withdrawing money from their accounts .
Customers are important stakeholders in every business .
My father is a very powerful man in this village .
My sister got a loan to finance her bakery business .
That bank has branches in over twenty African countries .
Prices of petroleum-based products have increased because of the increase in the price of crude oil .
Exporting crude oil earns the government twenty billion American dollars every year .
The new cement factory will create jobs for many youths in this area .
The government makes money by exporting crude oil to other countries .
She invested in a poultry business to top up on her monthly salary .
The bank has invested in a mobile banking application .
The price of fuel keeps going up because manufacturing companies are producing less fuel to gain more profit .
There is high demand for bottled drinking water because of the hot weather .
My mother mentors women who want to start their own businesses .
Many people are shifting to cheaper houses because of the pandemic .
Transport fares have increased during this pandemic .
Our boss asked some of us to work from home so as to observe the standard operating procedures .
The company pays a ten thousand Ugandan shillings commission for every new client an employee brings in .
She got a roommate because she could not afford to pay rent on her own .
We were advised to work from home because one of our colleagues tested positive for coronavirus .
He opened a new branch for his bakery last year .
Clients prefer to use mobile banking because it saves time .
Most schools resorted to online classes during the lockdown .
Some banks have implemented fingerprint scanning systems for their clients .
I have lived with my boyfriend for six months .
We share our office with two other companies .
There is a training for all company employees tomorrow .
My mother went to the bank to withdraw money yesterday .
This bank has over two million customers .
She changed the name of her company to attract more customers .
Our company has received more customers this year because of its good reputation .
The bank made a huge profit during the lockdown because many people got loans to support their families .
She borrowed money from the bank to finance her wedding .
I did not have money to pay for the sugar so my friend let me take it on credit .
My sister teaches mathematics at a nearby school .
Sometimes I imagine what my future husband will look like .
The headteacher explained why parents aren't allowed in the school during non-visiting days .
My father slashed the compound to get rid of the mosquitoes that were biting us .
Birds have light bones which makes it easy for them to fly .
My brother used crutches to walk when his leg was broken .
Some farmers make use of the sun to dry their crops .
The youngest Uganda martyr was only fourteen years old .
Many pilgrims visit this area to honor the Uganda martyrs .
My sister is worried that her husband might leave her for another woman .
Most Christians celebrated Martyrs Day from their homes because of the pandemic .
She has remained loyal to her husband even if he is disabled .
The locals killed their king because he was oppressing them .
My son was murdered last year .
In the old days ,  kings had the power to kill whoever they wanted .
That man killed his sister over a plot of land .
My father reads the newspaper every day .
The British funded the locals' rebellion against their king .
She has succeeded her father as the president of the company .
The prison guards helped him to escape because he promised to pay them five million Ugandan shillings each .
He was allowed to return to his country after ten years of exile .
Some people are protesting against the president's new laws .
The suspect escaped to another country after murdering his brother .
The kidnappers persuade children into entering their cars by giving them sweets .
The king has been captured by the rebels .
Martyrs day is a public holiday in Uganda to honor the Catholic converts who were killed because of their faith in God .
The king sentenced many of his subjects to death for being Christians .
The deceased was thirty four years old .
My father became a born-again Christian after his accident last year .
The priest led the mourners towards the deceased's grave .
My mother is a staunch Catholic .
My husband has been quiet since he returned from work .
Musicians go on world tours to promote their songs .
He achieved his goal to become a professional football player .
We visited Bethlehem last month .
The locals have to walk long distances in search of clean water .
There is a force that pulls objects thrown into the air back to the ground .
The priest requested the congregation to contribute money for the new church toilets .
My daughter was invited to a classmate's birthday party .
My father complained that it would be expensive for all of us to visit our grandmother .
He is at risk of contracting malaria if he does not sleep under a mosquito net .
He shot the bird with a stone from his slingshot .
The pope visited Uganda five years ago .
She bathed her son with herbal soap when he had a rash .
All my brother's children have three names .
I was attracted to my husband because of his kindness .
That woman pushed me out of the line .
There was a very inspirational sermon on television this evening .
That is one of the most famous churches in Uganda .
She took a thirty minute nap because she was tired .
There was a picture of the newly constructed road in the newspapers .
There are too many hawkers around the city center .
The president issued a directive that taxis should not operate for three months .
The government has repaired most of the roads in the city .
He showed me a picture of his new girlfriend this morning .
The city council has planted flowers along the roadside to improve the scenery .
That is my sister in the photograph .
I boarded a bus to the city last week .
The journalist took pictures of the vendors when he visited the market .
I enjoy photographing different animals .
My aunt sells maize along the roadside .
She is the best wedding photographer in our town .
Some people refuse to wear face masks because they feel uncomfortable .
She took pictures of her father during his birthday party .
She was walking to the supermarket when a car knocked her .
I took a picture of two puppies on my way home .
Many people were walking to work during the lockdown because public transport had been suspended .
She sent a picture of her baby to her parents .
Wearing a black dress is suitable for a funeral .
My sister's biggest problem is patience .
He spoils his wife with romantic gifts all the time .
Coronavirus has led to the death of many people all over the world .
She wore a long dress to the church party .
I took a shower before going to school .
My mother felt uncomfortable sitting in the plastic chair .
Our family goes to church every Sunday .
The manager asked for our views on the new company policies .
He responded rudely to one of the clients yesterday .
She sought advice from her husband about the best phones in the market .
The president reassured us of his contribution to the orphanage at the end of his speech .
He has three children outside his marriage .
God created man on the sixth day .
My son likes to run around the house naked after his bath .
Most Muslims do not have sex during the fasting period .
He sets an alarm clock to help him wake up in time for work .
Most people do not work on Sundays .
She woke her husband up at five o'clock in the morning because she was in labor .
There are three services in this church every Sunday .
My mother went swimming yesterday afternoon .
Her husband cheated on her with their housemaid .
Christians believe in only one God .
My husband spent two days looking for the perfect gift to give me on our wedding anniversary .
There are eleven matches left for the international football league to end .
My daughter scored fifteen points out of twenty on the English test .
The last football match of the season will be played on Wednesday .
Our national team has qualified for the international football competitions .
The finals for the swimming competitions will be held next week .
She prepares her children for school every morning .
The netball game will start at midday .
I believe that our team will win the football match .
She talked to her husband about having another child .
My sister sneaked out of the house to meet her boyfriend without our parents' knowledge .
There were no supporters to cheer for our team during the netball game .
Most people have adjusted to wearing facemasks to protect themselves against coronavirus .
A new family just moved into the house next to ours .
Her job is to clean all the tables in the restaurant .
Today's football match will be played in the national stadium .
Fans are not allowed in the stadium because of the pandemic .
The restaurant manager allowed us to carry the leftover food to our homes .
I started playing football ten years ago .
She said that she missed work yesterday because her dog died .
My brother will be part of the team during today's basketball game .
One of the players twisted his ankle during training .
She is a very famous musician in our country .
Those children lost both their parents to coronavirus .
My mother will need at least six weeks to recover from the operation .
I made a list of all the items I need to buy from the market .
My sister started singing when she was only four years old .
He was born in Cameroon .
The children performed a play about Jesus' life on earth .
Their father passed away two weeks after their mother's funeral .
We were all shocked to learn of the death of our landlord .
My grandfather died when he was eighty eight years old .
Our science teacher died in a car accident while he was on his way to school .
He wrote a song about his childhood .
Many people turned up for the music concert last weekend .
My husband played his guitar on our first date .
This restaurant is famous for serving the best chicken in the city .
He plays two musical instruments .
She played the piano on several occasions .
The president praised the deceased for his dedication to serving this country .
My grandfather was one of the first musicians in Uganda .
The deceased was passionate about African music .
The whole country is mourning the loss of one of the greatest musicians .
She plays loud music in her car .
My father inspired me to become a surgeon .
This is one of the best poems that has ever been written .
She filed a lawsuit against the school for expelling her daughter .
She was diagnosed with throat cancer five years ago .
He is a musician from Congo .
His wife is the lead singer in the church choir .
My son is a good dancer .
That man was a famous comedian back in the day .
My uncle was sixty six years old when he died .
The deceased's family has confirmed that he succumbed to coronavirus .
My father is one of the founders of this company .
The deceased was praised for fighting for the rights of the oppressed people in his community .
I inherited my grandfather's guitar when he died .
The district chairperson is admired by many people for his honesty .
The deceased had two daughters and one son .
He married his wife twenty six years ago .
My brother plays the trumpet .
Your father was a very talented musician .
He won the school singing competitions last year .
My friend grew up in an orphanage .
The family members of the deceased were advised to wear gloves when cleaning his body .
The deceased had been suffering from pneumonia since he was a child .
Our firstborn is forty seven years old .
The late mayor will be buried tomorrow .
The children looked very sad at their father's funeral .
The deceased was born in America thirty years ago .
My sister released her first song yesterday .
There are sixteen songs on his new album .
The company awarded the best performing employees with Christmas bonuses .
We named our son after the doctor who saved my life .
The deceased did not have any children .
Our grandmother succumbed to coronavirus three months ago .
The rock hit his head and he passed on instantly .
My husband has been in the music industry for eleven years .
I enjoy listening to his songs because they inspire me to follow my dreams .
My father resigned from his job last week .
My sister converted to Islam after marriage .
His father is a police officer .
Our neighbor died due to breathing complications .
His songs have inspirational messages for young people .
My father died during heart surgery .
She was born in a very poor family .
He sang a song about how the government is oppressing its citizens .
Four people died in a car accident this morning .
I still listen to my brother's music even though he passed on .
We visited the ancient city located in Turkey last Christmas .
She contracted coronavirus during her performance at our wedding .
The pastor led the congregation in a song of worship during his sermon .
My sister loves listening to gospel music because it calms her down .
Uganda lost thirty seven health workers to coronavirus in July .
This organization supports orphans and widows .
There were many famous people at the wedding ceremony I attended yesterday .
Some people from foreign countries have never seen barkcloth in their lives .
The audience was amazed by the designs at the fashion show last night .
The winner of the fashion competition received one hundred million Ugandan shillings .
My friend's mother is Nigerian .
She hosts a children's show on television every Saturday afternoon .
He is one of the most inspiring upcoming artists .
Our daughter does not eat meat .
My sister was having a hard time washing all the clothes on her own .
This fabric is meant for sports uniforms .
The deceased was buried in her favorite gomesi .
My mother looked at me suspiciously when she found me in the kitchen .
My bedsheets were made from cotton .
I am wearing a jacket because it might rain later in the day .
My brother wore an expensive black leather jacket today .
Barkcloth is one of the oldest fabrics in the world .
We cannot confirm when our daughter stopped wearing diapers .
The king wore white barkcloth during his coronation ceremony .
The king has encouraged every household to plant at least one tree in their compound .
This school has taught our children how to sew their clothes .
This organization aims to promote world peace through international cooperation in culture .
The deceased's body has to be preserved until his children arrive from abroad .
The late chief was buried in two hundred pieces of barkcloth .
The doctor gave me a cream for my skin rash .
She uses her computer to do her work as well as watch movies .
It was prohibited for women to wear trousers in the old days .
The company pays over ten million Ugandan shillings in taxes every year .
Her parents gifted her with a brand new car on her graduation day .
My father became famous when he opened up an orphanage in the village .
It is rare to find people wearing barkcloth nowadays .
Most foreigners despise our traditional wear because it doesn't suit them .
Cotton is one of Uganda's major cash crops that is used to make clothes .
The locals cut down trees to burn charcoal .
The second world war was caused by the failure of peace efforts between Germany and France .
Uganda got its independence from the British fifty eight years ago .
The tailor designed a beautiful dress for me .
My father sells goat meat in the market .
She harvested all the ripe mangoes from the tree .
The farmers are harvesting beans from their gardens .
The low maize production was caused by the long drought .
My boyfriend hid the engagement ring inside my birthday cake .
We harvested ten bags of maize from our farm last season .
She removed her sweater because she was feeling hot .
My mother covered the food before putting it on the stove to cook .
This tree has existed for over fifty years .
Rice takes about thirty minutes to cook properly .
She hit the coconut with a stone to open it .
She hangs her clothes on the line to dry .
Barkcloth was common in Central Uganda .
The models wore skirts made out of barkcloth .
My wife designs beautiful wedding gowns .
We attended a fashion show over the weekend .
That boutique sells ladies' clothes .
The jacket was designed with leather patches on the elbows .
Barkcloth is an ancient craft of the people in central Uganda .
Some clothes are made from cotton ,  nylon and silk fabrics .
He is fond of wearing buggy outfits .
It is very difficult to find people wearing barkcloth these days .
She always wears trendy fashions .
What is barkcloth used for ?
Some of the clothes on the Ugandan market are imported from other countries .
What is the local name for barkcloth ?
Barkcloth is more expensive than leather .
She lives a luxurious life .
Barkcloth is brown in color .
Her skin complexion is different from that of her siblings .
How long do trees take to grow ?
She had the most unique outfit at the party .
He lived a luxurious life .
He is my favorite musician .
Music concerts were closed as a result of the pandemic .
That musician has very many fans .
After winning the elections ,  he came back and thanked the villagers for voting for him .
We believe that prayer can change things .
The decoration was not impressive .
Dancehall songs are the most played in nightclubs .
Ladies' handbags are expensive .
Female artists should try to dress more appropriately .
Her entire family was very joyful when she won the competitions .
My brother is a songwriter even though he cannot sing .
What award was given to the best dancers ?
As a result of the lockdown ,  the musicians have resorted to online performances .
I enjoy band music .
There are many trending love songs these days .
Her song was not even among the top hits last year .
Music is a form of entertainment for most people .
Why is it that most comedians use abusive language ?
I attended the comedy show with my friends in order to relieve some stress .
There are some young children that have penetrated the music industry in Uganda .
Parents should help their children to discover their talents at an early age .
The old man is eighty six years old .
Teachers have contributed to the growth of the education system in Uganda .
Why do people preach the gospel ?
The memorial service took place at the Cathedral last Friday .
The old boys and girls of the school participate in some of the school projects .
No one knows why she decided to divorce her husband .
My mother has been teaching for over forty years now .
The Physical Education lesson was always my favorite .
I can play netball ,  volleyball and table tennis .
She was very popular in school .
Most of the candles are made out of wax and melt when lit .
Priests dedicate their lives to serving God .
Of what benefit is Bible study to a Christian ?
My parents are born-again Christians .
She was a kind ,  humble and a very generous person .
He loved his wife dearly .
She has always supported the needy people in her community .
He actively participated in most of the school activities this year .
The security guard walks with his dog and a torch during the night .
The identical twins can only be distinguished by their mother .
My friend started up a charity organization to help needy children .
There will be no school tomorrow because it is a public holiday .
She is a former student of the school .
Different projects have been established to empower women in society .
Most of the cutlery in her kitchen rusted .
She never gave up on her studies despite the many challenges .
Some early missionaries never returned to their home countries .
What kind of illness is he suffering from ?
He was such an inspiration to most of the youths .
She was chatting with her former friends from school .
We sang very beautiful hymns during the service .
She survived a deadly accident .
What are some of the hymns we sang in church ?
The entire family posed for a picture .
After the memorial service ,  we proceeded to the burial place .
Most youths have a great passion for music .
The reverend officially resigned from his ministry this year .
He led us in praise and worship during service .
There were some emotional scenes in the movie .
Who was his predecessor ?
He trained some women in the media .
Women now occupy positions of power unlike before .
All people should be treated equally despite their gender .
What should be done to prevent sexual harassment of women at workplaces ?
Unlike in the past ,  women's voices matter in society today .
A number of women are employed and working for different media houses in Uganda .
Most universities had their graduation ceremonies earlier this year .
What happens in the newsroom ?
Every person has the potential to be successful in life .
He captured the picture with his phone camera .
Given the various situations she went through ,  she is now a motivational speaker .
What are some of the most common words used in English ?
His death was sudden and unexpected .
He was suddenly ill on Wednesday last week and died four days later .
We eventually became friends since we used to do most of the work together .
More media companies have been established in Uganda .
How can one establish connections ?
There are many women employed in the news media industry .
Women are equally important as men in society .
The media plays a great role in the community we live in .
Some countries still segregate women in society .
Most people's plans were tarnished in two thousand twenty because of the pandemic .
There are different categories of journalists .
The media houses have employed a number of journalists .
Uganda has good relations with other African countries .
Women and men have equal opportunities in the media industry today .
Media is a great source of information for the public .
There is improved gender balance in society today .
At the time of his death ,  he requested to have a word with his son .
He has been working for that company for the last seven years .
Which media companies publish newspapers in Uganda ?
The news context is usually edited before issuing it for public consumption .
It is said that media employees are paid low salaries .
Some people's businesses fail while at the initial stages .
What are some of the roles played by journalists ?
He was requested to summarize his speech because of time .
It is wise to listen before responding .
The couple went for their honeymoon in Paris .
She holds beautiful memories about her father .
Uganda is one of the hospitable countries in Africa .
Many businesses have made losses because of the lockdown .
Women must help each other in terms of economic development .
It is very possible for one to successfully recover from the coronavirus disease .
Some people used herbs to treat coronavirus .
The coronavirus treatment is very expensive .
Some people died of anger during the lockdown .
After the training ,  the participants were awarded certificates .
Most truck drivers from the neighboring countries tested positive for coronavirus .
How many coronavirus cases are currently in Uganda ?
How were the coronavirus cases handled in Uganda ?
The team coach motivated the players before and during the match .
Some health workers succumbed to coronavirus .
How is coronavirus contracted ?
Very many people in Uganda succumbed to coronavirus this year in June .
How much does a liter of diesel cost in Uganda ?
He was arrested for forging false academic documents .
Who is the current commander of the land forces in Uganda ?
Not all accusations are true .
People need money to survive .
Which is the highest rank in the army ?
A bigger proportion of the population is ignorant about the law .
Very few criminals can boldly accept their offenses .
There are a number of laws that govern Uganda .
What happens if someone is found guilty of a crime ?
Army criminals are taken to military courts for trial .
Appearing before the court is an opportunity for one to prove their innocence .
He hired private investigators to help him find out his wife's murderers .
Under what conditions can the court grant one bail ?
Most of the criminals are tried in courts of law .
What kind of crimes attract life imprisonment ?
The police has a right to arrest anyone .
Most policemen stay in the barracks with their families .
Everywhere in the world ,  people die every day .
What are some of the new taxes imposed this financial year ?
Every driver on the road must have a driver's license .
Every vehicle in Uganda has a number plate with a unique registration number .
The eyewitnesses were invited to court to testify .
Despite the fact that he had a severe cough ,  he tested negative for coronavirus .
Some government officials are corrupt .
Ministry of Health has tried to fight against the spread of coronavirus among Ugandans .
How are emergency cases handled in hospitals ?
Coronavirus tests are taken through the nose or mouth .
The police took the dead body to the hospital for further investigation .
Why do truck drivers travel with an extra person in the vehicle ?
I do not think that all police investigations are accurate .
What happens after a patient has tested positive for coronavirus ?
Most of the crimes are investigated by the police .
Who is the Archbishop of the Church of Uganda ?
He held a press conference to address the political situation in Uganda .
There are many churches in our area .
Journalists do a tremendous job .
I took most of the pictures with my phone .
How can I serve God ?
God has very many servants all over the world .
She always gives me gifts on my birthday .
Is journalism a good career ?
The government gave out food and financial aid to the vulnerable during the pandemic .
Most churches have resorted to the use of media platforms for Sunday services during this lockdown .
He took me out for lunch .
She was talented at both singing and sports .
God anointed him with great words of wisdom .
I think it is better for a marriage counselor to be married .
Most people could not recognize him at all because he had grown thin .
Some people minister in the church through the choir .
He sings with expression and passion .
He can sing as well as play other musical instruments .
Most of the hymns I know are in English .
Today's sermon was about salvation .
God loves us so much .
The poet wrote a poem about his mother .
How did you express your gratitude ?
The choir entertained the congregation with a poem .
Her entire family is talented in music .
How many sons does he have ?
Where do you fellowship from on Sundays ?
Due to the prevalence of the pandemic ,  people have resorted to scientific weddings .
There are over thirty people in the choir .
We enjoyed the music festival .
He connected me to a new job .
She does not tolerate any nonsense .
Uganda generates its own electricity .
Electricity has various benefits but it can equally be dangerous .
He used a certified electrician to wire his home .
Any company must have a license from the government before starting its operations in Uganda .
She was previously convicted of the same offense .
She was once a leader in school .
There are many industries being established in Uganda .
Leaders must guide their subordinates into doing the right things .
Who does not want to be successful in life ?
Most students in school fail science subjects .
He enrolled in an engineering course at the university .
After high school ,  she joined a vocation institute .
Makerere university's main campus is located in the district of Kampala .
What course did you study at the university ?
There are a number of charity organizations in Uganda today .
Is it necessary to have a mentor ?
What are the basics of choosing a mentor ?
We listed the items we needed to start up the business .
What role do mentors play ?
She is a registered engineer who has mentored many others in the profession .
What is the benefit of having a mentor ?
He comes from the Eastern region of Uganda .
How do organizations give back to society ?
The people's standards of living have changed .
Several groups have come up to empower women by skilling them .
God created us all in His image .
Most students have a perception that science subjects are very hard .
These days women compete for the same jobs as men .
The decisions we make today should be able to benefit future generations .
Change is sometimes necessary .
What were some of the challenges faced by people during the pandemic ?
What are some of the challenges faced by women bosses in different organizations ?
Social media platforms were shut down in Uganda during this year's general elections .
It is very difficult to achieve income equality in the country .
The staff members are required to wear uniforms while at work premises .
He successfully managed his business .
Our house is still under construction .
We need to learn how to balance work and life .
It is important for a woman who is working and has a family to balance home and work duties .
I advise women to take good care of their families .
Some women are devoted to their marriages .
Married people usually have a lot of responsibilities to accomplish .
She switched off the lights .
It is globally proven that women live longer than men .
What are some of the roles played by women in a home ?
Most children are introduced to drugs by their peers .
She lost most of her wealth .
Besides his family's history ,  he was determined to make his own legacy .
Raising children is not an easy task .
Her parents passed on last year in a car accident .
Electricity prices in Uganda are high .
The aim of any company is to satisfy the needs of its customers .
Modern-day women cook on gas ,  electricity ,  and charcoal stoves .
People have different fears in life .
It is very good to put your trust in God .
Women must be submissive to their husbands .
Fear is a sign of doubt .
With God all things are possible .
God's timing is the best .
How often do you read your Bible ?
She shared with us her journey to success .
What do you term success ?
What have you done to put a smile on peoples faces ?
Speak words of hope and be kind to others .
How many players are needed in a basketball team ?
Fans get discouraged when their favorite teams lose the match .
What is the role of a striker on a football team ?
The football team is left with three matches to play .
Many people betted on different teams during the championship league .
Not all hardworking people are rich .
Is it possible to win the game by luck ?
The team lost the game by a few points .
Most men are football fans .
How many marks did you score on the test ?
Be very careful when crossing the road .
We settled all our misunderstandings and decided to move on .
The players are given a break during the game .
Some of the people that participated in the strike were arrested .
On finding out that his wife was cheating on him ,  he threatened to kill her .
My little brother is a goalkeeper on the football team .
The team played five games before making it to the final match .
It is perceived that golf is a game for the rich .
Lightning usually strikes during the rainy season .
Our team did not qualify for the champions league .
People have occupied the swampy areas which is a threat to the environment .
Do not take your life for granted .
No team had scored a goal by the end of the second half of the match .
The team that scores more goals wins the match .
He got a serious knee injury when he fell into a hole .
We won the volleyball game by five goals on one .
Mathematics was my favorite subject in school .
The lawyer who defended her in court passed away .
What happens if both teams have a similar score from the match ?
He won a gold medal from the Olympics race competitions .
A lion roars while a cock crows .
What is the role played by the Uganda Wildlife Authority ?
He spent his night in the lodge .
Who was the first president of Uganda ?
How many national parks are in Uganda ?
The tourism industry of Uganda is growing .
The tourist took photographs of the animals with his camera .
More roads have been constructed in the country to ease transportation .
Ugandans need to feel safe in their countries .
Buses and taxis are available for public transport .
The government has decided to take away guns from the Karamojong .
He managed to make jewelry from beads .
We went to the studio to take some photographs .
People sell goods to get money .
Tourism has contributed to Uganda's Gross Domestic Product .
When was the last population census carried out in the country ?
Why would wild animals migrate from one place to another ?
Elephants are hunted for their ivory .
Uganda has the highest number of buffalos in the world .
There are two types of buffaloes in Uganda .
He works as a tour guide in the national park .
What are some of the seasonal rivers in Uganda ?
What are some of the animals we find in the national parks ?
The lodge charges five hundred eighty United states dollars per night .
Tourists need accommodation facilities when they come to Uganda .
The guests at the wedding were entertained by dancers and musicians .
How should a normal home look like ?
We took a tour around the northern part of Uganda .
Some scientists believe that man evolved from animals .
Is it true that a persons spirit cannot die ?
Everyone is accountable for their own actions .
Jesus Christ died on the cross and resurrected after three days .
Some government officials have been arrested for stealing public funds .
My brother was promoted at his workplace .
None of us chose the parents we have .
The tour guide toured us around the park .
Some people have been entrusted to run government organizations .
One of the best National Parks in Uganda is located in the northeastern region .
What are some of the physical features that attract tourists in Uganda ?
The countries' borders are well guarded by the army .
There are very many beautiful things in the world .
Human beings are full of emotions .
Animals too mate in order to reproduce .
Are there elephants in the zoo ?
A number of vehicles were held up in traffic jam .
I no longer watch horror movies .
Some animals feed on others .
After marriage ,  the woman is not expected to return home to stay with her parents .
Everyone at the burial site fled when the dead person resurrected .
The zebra is food to a lion .
Is goat milk good for human consumption ?
The baby was sucking its mother's breast for milk .
Poaching is an illegal activity that affects the tourism sector .
There are around five thousand elephants in Uganda today .
Why do people hunt wild animals ?
What are the benefits of conserving wildlife ?
What makes you different from others ?
What is the best place you have ever visited in Uganda ?
Animals protect their young ones from harm .
What are some of the roles played by the game rangers ?
Conservation of wildlife has promoted the tourism sector in Uganda .
What qualifications does one need to become a game ranger ?
We have been married for a year now .
There are very many private schools in Uganda .
Peoples are different from animals .
On average ,  how many tourists visit Uganda in a year
The tourism sector in Uganda has been greatly affected by the pandemic .
The journey is a two hours drive .
Air transport is the most expensive means of transport .
It is easier to travel within Uganda by helicopter .
Good roads improve accessibility to a place and ease transport .
Are monkeys dangerous to people ?
The Uganda Wildlife Authority has tried to boost the tourism sector in the country .
He negotiated and bought the car at a slightly lower price .
Foreign tourists bring foreign currency into the country .
Tourists can visit the park any time throughout the year .
He turned his house into a lodge in order to get money .
She abandoned her children and got married to another man .
Did you know that time waits for no man ?
Olympics medalists were globally recognized .
Uganda is endowed with beautiful nature .
What has the government done to improve the tourism and travel industry ?
Besides Uganda ,  other countries in Africa have national parks .
Uganda has international relations with China .
What is required for one to become a medical doctor ?
Government schools in Uganda have extended education services to many children in the community .
During her senior six vacation ,  she volunteered to teach at her former school .
Some children fall out of school because their parents cannot afford the school fees .
He recently graduated with a master's degree in Information Technology .
Medicine can be given through an injection or tablets .
Some people's history is not pleasant .
Do you know the meaning of your name ?
The previous lockdown lasted for forty two days .
We do not know why she canceled her flight ticket .
In the past ,  most blacks were discriminated by whites because of their skin color .
She wrote an apology letter to me .
The company has a good image in the public .
It takes humility to make an apology .
What is the best way to resolve family conflicts ?
The percolator automatically turns off when the water is fully boiled .
The thief disappeared from our sight .
She restored her health after being admitted to the hospital for three days .
I want to explore the different cultures in Uganda .
My grandmother is not on social media .
She deliberately pushed her friend from the building .
He was imprisoned in jail for over ten years .
The practice of racism is inhuman and brings disunity among people .
The prolonged drought led to scarcity of food in the country .
She felt ashamed when people laughed at her .
Married couples vow to be together till death .
Most of the people that participated in the riot were arrested .
How has the prevalence of coronavirus affected the education sector ?
Some employees were laid off from work because of the pandemic .
I got a driving permit this year .
Companies advertise their products in order to acquire new customers .
Public gatherings were stopped as a way of preventing the spread of coronavirus .
Quarantine yourself in case you have symptoms of coronavirus .
This year the president banned the use of Facebook in Uganda .
The prevalence of coronavirus has affected the economy of Uganda .
My sister invited me to visit her in Germany .
She opened up a restaurant in town .
Some Ugandans that travel abroad never return to Uganda .
Chinese have opened up businesses and factories in Uganda .
We shall continue from where we have stopped .
Most of the staff quit their jobs because of delayed payments .
The president appointed new ministers this year .
Children are greatly affected when their parents separate .
You must have a passport in order to travel outside the country .
The international schools in Uganda are very expensive .
Nobody knows exactly when schools shall reopen for in-person classes .
He says that his wife's beauty attracted him to her .
Some students at the university pay for their tuition fees .
Some schools did not offer online classes during the second lockdown .
Developed countries have heavily invested in technology .
I sat for my senior four in two thousand twelve .
Most traders in Uganda import their products from China .
Customers that buy in bulk stand a chance of getting discounts .
Under what conditions can a school be closed ?
You can get a mask at one thousand Ugandan shillings only .
It is now mandatory to wear masks while in public .
Police officers are required to execute their duties while in uniform .
Why is it necessary to wear a mask during this season of the pandemic ?
He was arrested for not wearing a mask .
Passengers in the taxi are supposed to social distance .
How has police implemented the lockdown restrictions ?
Some diseases come as a result of poor hygiene .
What are some of the rights of a prisoner ?
Many youths in Uganda have no jobs .
He dropped out of school at the age of sixteen years .
What does it take for one to start up their own business ?
He started the car at a very high speed .
The Primary Leaving Examination results were released by the minister of education and sports .
Some parents in rural areas cannot afford to take their children to school .
What are some of the tools used for welding ?
His brother recommended him for this job .
You are looking good today .
I trust my mother very much .
Most jobs want people with experience .
It is very easy for a skilled person to become self-employed .
What is the purpose of saving money ?
The old man kept swinging in his chair quietly .
How much did he sell his car ?
The aim of most businesses is to make profits .
Let us be job creators and not job seekers .
He pays his house rent on a monthly basis .
Why are most men polygamous ?
Fake products are usually cheaper than original products .
The public transport charges doubled due to government restrictions imposed to stop the spread of coronavirus .
What do you intend to do with your first salary ?
She achieved her dream of becoming an accountant .
It is a statutory obligation for citizens to pay taxes .
Vocational schools equip students with different skills .
I think everyone in this life has faced challenges before .
He revised his classroom notes and passed the examinations .
Some people advertise their business on social media .
The market is ten kilometers away from our home .
Most of his clients take goods on credit .
Do you prefer wooden or metallic doors ?
People who duplicate other people's products need to be arrested .
A customer should be treated like a king .
Children spend more than seven years in primary school .
What is the age bracket for youths ?
What kind of skills do you have ?
He has been running his business for ten years now .
Who is in charge of preparing the national budget ?
Make sure that you wear a clean mask .
The judge will make his ruling next week .
The Uganda flag has a crested crane in the middle .
Security officials strongly guard the president of Uganda .
The band matched around the village .
The birds built a nest in the tree .
The examination will last for three hours .
Girls experience body changes when they get into the adolescent stage .
Companies work hard to protect their brands .
During the lockdown ,  most employees got an opportunity to work from home .
She is usually very busy from Monday to Friday .
Some companies were closed because they did not renew their licenses .
Uganda registered its first coronavirus case in March two thousand twenty .
He finally changed his mind about the divorce .
We forced her to take the medication .
Do you know how to use a computer ?
What can government do to fight cybercrime ?
I sent him a message via his email address .
We did our examinations under remote invigilation .
Computers are expensive gadgets .
Never share your bank pin with anyone .
He has a special connection to his children .
We exchanged our phone contacts for further communication .
Computers use different software applications .
All his children are successful .
Technology has influenced change in the production sector .
She requested for more soup in order to finish her food .
We received over one hundred applications for the same job .
He spent all the money on buying new clothes .
Cheap products are sometimes not of good quality .
Why do people move from villages to towns ?
Vaccinated people can still contract coronavirus .
There has been an advancement in technology .
My brother is an auditor .
How many football teams participated in the champion league ?
It is very painful to lose a match .
He converted from Islam to Christianity .
Some companies have closed their operations in Uganda .
The table tennis ball is smaller than the ball used for football .
He lost money in sports betting .
We booked a hotel room for the night .
Some people are suffering from broken hearts .
She is his former wife .
A united team has the potential to accomplish a lot .
What is the best way to conserve fish ?
I reserved for him a seat next to me .
I think suffering will never end in this world .
What are some of the tools found in a first aid box ?
The aeroplane shall be landing this night .
Patients need medical attention while in the hospital .
There is inadequate medicine in some public hospitals .
Doctors wear protective gear like gloves and masks when offering treatment to the patient .
We rushed her to the hospital when she fainted .
The doctor gave him some medicine that put him to sleep .
How much money did you spend on your trip ?
The team didn't score any goal during the first half of the match .
The ball went offside whenever he tried to make a score .
She was very happy and excited about everything that was going on .
National heroes day is celebrated on an annual basis in June .
He cannot afford to buy a plot of land at the moment .
This is his final year at the university .
He stayed awake till midnight yesterday .
People are given first names based on their religions .
The football team has eleven players .
The table was made of glass .
Playing games on the phone is sometimes addictive .
There are very many buyers and sellers in the market .
What do you think is the cause of traffic jam on most roads ?
Why did government call for a lockdown during the pandemic season ?
We helped him push his car off the road .
She deliberately refused to answer him when he greeted her .
He was born and raised in Kampala city .
There is a lot of congestion in Kampala downtown .
I bought a new pair of shoes from town yesterday .
Some Ugandans have never been to Kampala before .
Thieves have tactics of breaking padlocks without keys .
Bicycle riders need to be very careful while on the road .
While lifting the lockdown ,  motorcycle riders were directed to carry only one passenger .
Her mother got a stall in the new market .
It is said that an idle mind is the devil's workshop .
Some police officers are very corrupt .
He had just joined senior one when schools were closed .
There are lots of prizes to win during the competition .
He has never played any sports game all his life .
Only the winner will take the trophy back home .
What are some of the ways one can maintain personal hygiene ?
My brother does not like to shower .
The parents' meeting is scheduled to take place tomorrow in the school main hall .
It is an honor to meet you .
She leaned forward to whisper something in my ear .
I do not know how to pronounce her name .
He was arrested for revealing government secrets to the public .
My mother always comments on my dress code .
His salary is paid through the bank .
The negative comments from the public made her quit music .
We cannot all have the same opinion on something .
She has lost too much weight this year .
What do you do in your free time ?
The coach has worked hard towards establishing the team spirit among the players .
He has accumulated millions of savings on his bank account .
Whenever the team scored a goal ,  the fans would celebrate .
We did not find out what was in the envelope because it was thoroughly sealed .
She is the odd man out in the group .
My father always returns home when he is very tired .
I missed the morning lesson because of the heavy rain .
The referee awarded our team a penalty kick .
She accidentally dropped her phone in the water .
Which team won the champions league last year ?
The coach knows how to get results from his team .
I think there is no one who does not dream during his or her sleep .
The men were trained on how to use guns .
The casualties had severe injuries .
We used a table knife to cut the cake .
He earned a lot of money from his piggery project .
One of his arms was cut off .
He fell on his knees to ask for forgiveness .
Seriously injured players are substituted during the match .
We knocked at the door but no one opened it .
He scored the highest mark in the test .
Her speech was so lengthy and boring .
February is my birth month .
We watched the football game from the television .
Money is scarce because people's needs are unlimited .
I wished him a happy new year .
I like to drink cold water on hot days .
There is stiff competition in the job market today .
He does not work on Saturday .
Rebels attacked the village and killed some people .
She scored a goal in the last minute of the game .
One of the witnesses was very nervous during the court session .
What keeps you busy during the day .
He drove off the car at a very high speed .
Her children look very miserable .
He deserved a very big punishment .
Only three people were seated on the bench .
Sunday is a holy day .
A few weeks after the interview ,  she was called in to start working .
She wants to buy a new car .
We were very pleased to host the bishop at our home .
The match will be played at the national stadium .
He has a very weird character .
The netball team is made up of senior two students .
She broke up with her boyfriend .
He threw a party as a way of celebrating his victory .
After breastfeeding ,  she took the baby to bed .
We only picked ripe mangoes from the tree .
The injured player was carried on a stretcher to the ambulance .
Which international football team do you support ?
He got a chance of going back to school but he misused it .
The heart surgery was successful .
A standard football game is ninety minutes long .
Seventh-day Adventists do not pray on Sunday like other Christians .
It is assumed that the coronavirus pandemic started in China .
Most weddings are held over the weekend .
He is a skilled football player .
By the end of this month ,  we expect the president to lift some of the coronavirus restrictions .
She plaited her hair .
He looks ugly with the unshaved beard .
Do not stay in the company of the wrong people .
What can I do to keep my body healthy ?
My grandmother trained me on how to weave mats .
Why are some medical surgeries not successful ?
He withdrew three hundred thousand Uganda shillings from his bank account .
As a way of keeping my body fit ,  I go jogging every Sunday morning .
We thought that the schools will be reopening next week .
Our netball team did not make it to the finals .
He drew a picture of his mother .
Footballers use their legs to play with the ball .
He failed because the examination questions were difficult for him to understand .
I only watch the news on the television .
On Wednesday ,  she will be traveling abroad .
How many aggregates did he attain in his Primary Leaving Examinations ?
He is an anointed man of God .
The pandemic season has affected the global economy .
Her father did not attend her introduction ceremony .
Forget your past and look forward .
Britain broke away from the European Union
He wants to go for further studies .
The thieves stole everything in the house and left it empty .
How come that most basketball players are tall ?
He is hopeful that God will help him .
Countries like Tanzania did not believe in the prevalence of coronavirus .
When the match is a draw ,  no one wins .
He was the fourth in class .
How can we control the spread of diseases in society ?
The old woman lost most of her teeth .
The face mask should cover the mouth and the nose .
The minister advised the people to practice social distancing especially when they are in public places .
The referee uses a whistle to give instructions .
She has no one to play with at home .
Countries like Uganda are landlocked .
International football players have fans globally .
At what time did you set the appointment ?
The cup is too small for him .
Tanzania's president-elect died this year .
What causes a heart attack ?
Is it true that all leadership comes from God ?
She won the Olympics race competitions for the first time in her life .
Is Burundi part of the East African Community ?
He spent four years at the university .
How much is a coronavirus test ?
The coronavirus vaccine is given on the left hand .
The government managed to procure some coronavirus vaccines .
This government has been in power for a long period of time .
The government should open places of worship .
How can one best prepare for his job interview ?
The Member of Parliament donated masks and an ambulance to the hospital .
The school has been renovated during this time of the lockdown .
Most of the bars have shut down because of the pandemic .
Over eighty ministers were appointed by the president this year .
The public has put pressure on the ministry of education and sports to reopen schools .
Why do we need budgets ?
It is okay to be selfish sometimes .
Which course do you plan to do at the university ?
Will candidates sit for their final national examinations this year ?
What was included in the budget ?
How has the education sector contributed to Uganda's economy ?
The government has tried to fight against coronavirus in Uganda .
She went to the hospital to test for cancer .
The rate of school dropout is most likely to increase due to coronavirus .
Which hospitals test for coronavirus ?
What is the coronavirus test kit made up of ?
Everyone entering the country by plane should test for coronavirus at the airport .
The president promised to increase the health workers' salaries this year .
What roles are played by the permanent secretary in government organizations ?
How much would it cost me to build a house ?
After failing to pay rent ,  he moved to the village .
What was the role of the National coronavirus Taskforce ?
Why did the Ministry of Health provide a toll-free number ?
I think universities should be reopened .
The school owners have requested the government to help them reopen schools .
During last year's lockdown ,  schools were used as quarantine centers .
It is recommended to maintain a meters distance from one another .
Uganda has been hit by the second wave of coronavirus .
Who heads the Ministry of Health ?
Uganda is a developing country .
There were two children per desk in the classroom .
The public is encouraged to follow the health guidelines .
Some teachers have decided to quit the teaching profession because of the pandemic .
Coronavirus is a threat to our body's immunity .
We scheduled a meeting for Monday morning .
He publicized his relationship with her .
Stop comparing yourself with others .
How did you understand the message ?
The game resumed after the break .
What is the capital city of Tanzania ?
He was holding the money in his hands .
What are the benefits of planning ahead of time ?
There are very many young mothers these days .
Avoid taking things for granted .
The employees appreciated his good leadership .
The arrest of South Africa's former president caused riots in the country .
You will need permission from your parents in order to go for the trip .
There are a number of countries on the African continent .
Madagascar is like an island .
We played five matches before making it to the finals .
I think we have chosen the right person to lead the football team .
He led us in prayer before we had dinner .
It is said that eagles have a good sight .
His friend comes from Zambia .
How can one's level of maturity be determined ?
Under what conditions can one attain the title of a "Doctor" ?
Champions have every reason to celebrate .
A land title is proof of land ownership .
The president of Uganda promised to improve the roads in Eastern Uganda .
How many football clubs are in Uganda ?
He acquired a land title registered in his name .
Only the winner will be awarded .
He canceled their wedding .
While still in primary seven ,  she selected secondary schools of her choice .
He participated in singing competitions .
Some countries in the Northern part of African have light-skinned people .
There are civil wars in South Sudan .
He won me by ten marks only .
He was arrested for failing to pay back a loan .
The projects will run for a period of two months .
He academically excelled in school .
Why did companies lay off some of their workers during the pandemic ?
What are some of the advantages of competition ?
The national budget is prepared every financial year .
Some students did have enough money to pay for their university tuition .
As a way of managing your finances well ,  you can come up with a personal budget .
Even developed countries have been negatively affected by coronavirus .
How have the people of Uganda benefited from the lockdown ?
What are the conditions of joining a university in Uganda ?
My best friend stole money from that company .
The case was dismissed from the court because of insufficient evidence .
The government should pay its employees in time .
She advised prostitutes to distance themselves from truck drivers .
Some truck drivers were infected with coronavirus .
The Ministry of Health informed Ugandans about the dangers of coronavirus disease .
My sister was given twenty million Ugandan shillings as payment for the advert .
Some hospitals ran out of oxygen during the lockdown .
The government has tightened the security in Western Uganda .
That security officer impregnated my neighbor's daughter .
The security guard was dismissed for sleeping at work .
My sister was raped by the rebels .
They were divorced after ten years of marriage .
The government is recruiting people in the army .
The president promoted five hundred army officers .
My sister was forced to get married to that rich man .
My uncle was shot by the criminals .
The police retrieved a bomb from the city center .
The people of Northern Uganda lost their lives during the war .
The government purchased weapons from Russia .
There is congestion in the city .
The president appointed new security officers in the government agencies .
Some politicians said that the police is working with criminals .
The bomb killed eighty five people .
They played three football matches in one week .
They walked off the football pitch after being racially abused
My uncle is the leading all time goal scorer in the Uganda premier league .
He won the world football player of the year award .
Our goalkeeper saved two penalties .
The football players were not allowed to meet with their families .
He is the best referee in the Uganda premier league .
That football stadium is under construction .
The World Cup tournament happens every after four years .
The basketball coach was not pleased with the performance of his players .
That is the richest football team in Uganda .
They did not have money to pay their players .
That striker got a shoulder injury one month ago .
The National football team is not well facilitated .
The president of Congo was infected with coronavirus .
With the return of the Uganda premier league ,  football fans will be entertained .
Some cinema halls in Uganda show football games .
Our National football team qualified for next year's Africa cup of nations .
They got the biggest sponsorship deal in East Africa .
The government stopped the movement of private cars throughout the country .
The basketball team sold off all their seasonal tickets .
Our football match was delayed by thirty minutes .
The football players died in a plane crash .
That football manager has a habit of smoking during the match .
My brother won the African motor cross championship .
The government refused to give him a working permit .
The government should allocate more funds towards sports activities .
My uncle will undergo a knee surgery .
Most people do not watch the Uganda premier league games .
That was the easiest football game they have played this season
That basketball team has young players .
Most football stadiums in Uganda are not well facilitated .
The stadium accommodates fifty thousand people .
My friend has lost his grandmother .
My neighbor was strangled by unknown men .
The volleyball stadium was filled with water when it rained .
Our football coach needs to change his tactics .
My brother is the highest paid basketball player in the world .
My father's company employs more than fifty workers .
They should sign up players who fit in their football philosophy .
My cousin resigned from his job .
They lost the Uganda cup final to city rivals .
The Germans were defeated in the Second World War .
My brother was given a one year contract extension .
My friend was ruled out of today's volleyball game .
Most teams in Uganda are renting football stadiums .
Our basketball team does not have money to buy players .
The company revenue increased by twenty five percent this year .
The owner invested heavily in that basketball team .
The court was adjourned until fifth June .
He spends most of his time drinking alcohol .
The kickboxer won the match by knockout .
He was given a three match ban .
He is the best football player on the African continent .
Some hospitals in Uganda lack enough medical officers .
He played eighty five games for the Uganda cranes .
My friend goes to the gym every day .
He scored the best goal in the Uganda premier league .
Our football team spends three hundred million Ugandan shillings on players' salaries annually .
Some players in the Uganda premier league do not train .
The basketball team recruited new medical doctors .
That football team won twenty consecutive games in the Uganda premier league .
Our basketball team is expected to win the remaining games .
The football team was fined two million Ugandan shillings because of indiscipline .
That referee was given money to determine the result of the game .
The referees should be neutral when officiating sports games .
My brother missed a penalty in the last minute of the football match .
They have the tallest player in the basketball league .
That basketball team is owned by the vice president .
Our volleyball team was expelled from the competition for bribing referees .
My brother is the most followed football player on social media .
My uncle is the most paid basketball player in the world .
The government established mobile clinics to treat coronavirus patients .
My parents have been married for twenty years .
Who gave you that name ?
All schools were closed because of the coronavirus .
The president imposed a lockdown to prevent the further spread of coronavirus .
Kitgum district is found in the northern part of Uganda .
In Uganda ,  a primary student has to sit for Primary Living Examinations in order to join secondary school .
Curfew starts at nine o'clock in the evening .
Parents take their children to school when they are still infants .
In June the civil war intensified and spread through the city .
Most schools are offering online classes to their students .
She has a medical certificate .
The candidates sat for their final exams after the uplifting of lockdown .
The mudslide victims were relocated to the nearby districts .
There are both government and privately owned universities .
The rebels caused a war in the northern part of Uganda .
Some people entirely depend on farming as a source of income .
Nursery schools have been closed for two and half years because of coronavirus .
The president thanked the health workers who were at the frontline during the pandemic .
How do you spend your free time ?
The dates for the final exams have been communicated .
The schools are still under closure till further notice from the president .
Uganda is hosting refugees from Afghanistan .
The parents pay school fees per term .
Most schools offer both science and arts subjects at the Advanced level .
The task force used the covid relief fund to buy food for vulnerable people .
The examination board is responsible for setting final exams for candidate classes .
In Uganda ,  the teachers are being vaccinated against coronavirus .
What did you do in order to excel ?
In Uganda ,  most sugar cane plantations are owned by individuals .
How can I start my own business ?
Many of the graduates are unemployed .
The university administration is investigating the cause of the students' strike .
Most employees earn monthly salaries .
What is required to register a company in Uganda ?
The tuition fees vary across the different educational institutions .
Some medical officers succumbed to coronavirus .
I used my savings to buy a plot of land .
Bank of Uganda regulates commercial banks .
Some employees were laid off from their jobs because of the pandemic .
The interviewer asked me about my future plans .
What are the causes of infertility among married couples ?
Women are allowed to participate in politics .
There are organizations that advocate for women's rights .
The Ministry of Health provides health services to the people in rural areas through health centers .
The Uganda blood bank encourages people to donate blood .
Most private hospitals employ specialized doctors .
There are some organizations that offer voluntary services .
The courts have many cases to handle .
World Health Organization is responsible for international public health .
The professionals are registered under certain bodies .
Some of the Non-Governmental Organizations receive funds from international organizations .
The foundation of marriage should be love .
Women empowerment advocates for gender equality .
International companies employ people from different countries .
The court trial is expected to continue for three months .
The manager is responsible for the day-to-day management of the company .
People change from one job to another for better payments .
New industrial parks are established within the country .
The prisoners are always brought to court for trials .
Some children with disabilities are rejected and abandoned by their relatives .
There has been an increase in the number of divorce cases .
The dish fell on the floor and broke .
I woke up with a slight headache .
Fever is one of the symptoms of coronavirus .
Each hospital owns an ambulance to transport ill patients to referral hospitals .
I thought he was sick .
Some companies employ on a contract basis .
Uganda imposed travel bans on countries that were highly hit by the virus .
Marketing involves the use of persuasive language to convince consumers to buy your products .
Our parents got married at a young age .
There is an increase in violence against women and children in the country .
There has been an increase in the number of cancer patients .
The doctor refused to discharge her because she has not yet fully recovered .
Some patients are flown out of the country for further treatment because of inadequate medical facilities .
Cancer affects different parts of the body .
She never got over the shock of the tragic accident .
The country has few cancer facilities to treat the increasing number of cancer patients .
Child labor has increased within the country .
The government encourages family planning among married couples .
Cancer treatment is costly and cannot be afforded by most cancer patients .
Hospitals have specific visiting hours .
The baby was crawling around the room on her hands and knees .
I bought a new car yesterday .
The president closed the churches for more sixty days .
Where did you get the permission from ?
Uganda has different religions .
Uganda has a few specialized doctors .
The tests for Human Immune Virus are free of charge in government hospitals .
The doctors carry out several tests to determine the patients' illness before the treatment .
The police shot the suspect when he pulled out a gun .
Cancer can be prevented from spreading to the rest of the body through chemotherapy .
God still performs miracles .
The children are the ones who suffer when their parents divorce .
Some Ugandans are employed in foreign countries .
There is freedom of worship in Uganda .
Feathers help to keep birds warm .
My uncle removed his first son from the will because of his bad behavior .
Every morning ,  we are woken up by the sound of the crowing rooster .
He inherited his late father's property .
Roosters are essential in the poultry farm .
He was sick of malaria .
I went to see the doctor because I was feeling weak .
The cow was slaughtered on Christmas .
My father is the richest man in our town .
He likes eating chicken .
He sent a message to his father for financial help .
Her health has drastically improved .
I feel better after taking a nap .
She generously donated the little she could .
My brother is extremely sick .
My father has recovered from coronavirus disease .
Something unusual happened last night .
The body generates a lot of heat during cold days .
Our eyes play an important role in keeping us from danger .
In the African setting ,  elders are respected .
It was unfair for the boss to give large bonuses to the employees he favors .
He was selfish to everyone around him .
Her brother owns a phone accessories shop .
Some pregnant women spit a lot .
It is irritating to spit in public .
He had to decide on the next move to survive .
Illustrations used in the children's books attract them to read the stories in there .
When we were young our parents used to tell us folktales .
I think I left my umbrella in your car .
Bees make honey .
Bees have two pairs of wings .
He won the dancing competition .
Flowers are used for decoration on different occasions .
Eating a lot of ice cream is not good for your health .
She was tired and fell asleep during the lectures .
Few people know sign language in Uganda .
We sat around the fire singing songs at night .
I cooked dinner for the first time after school .
She had to find a way to get warmth for her baby because it was cold .
Light helps us to see well in the night .
What a wonderful day this is ?
In the past ,  the president was a powerful politician .
She is creative in her business .
The lion has the strongest roar in the cat family .
She caught a big fish .
She looked with confidence during her job interview .
When the lion roars other animals become frightened .
He was trapped in a difficult situation .
It rains all year round .
The patient developed severe neck pain .
She gave up her job at the bank to do farming .
In the past ,  women were not allowed to own property .
My husband came back home thirsty and hungry .
The patient became weaker day by day .
Thousands of people died of hunger in that country .
I heard from the news that one of the army generals was dead .
Children are advised to listen attentively to their parent's advice .
He wanted to have a good job before having a family .
Young children like playing a lot .
He helped his daughter with her homework .
She was pleased by the work he did .
I have never been to Kenya .
She was cruel to the customers .
We ate breakfast at seven o'clock in the morning .
I promise you that I will finish the assignment on time .
He has been a loyal friend for many years .
I am sorry for I was rude to you yesterday .
You have to be a good observer to see everything .
She was released from jail last week .
Who is your new friend ?
He saves half of his monthly salary .
It is a must to tighten your seat belt when you board a plane .
She performed well in the dancing competition .
Some people think rich people are always happy .
He runs the family business on his own .
He was very weak after the surgery .
He attended the seminar when he was hungry .
Children dirtied themselves with mud .
Don't chew with your mouth open .
My daughter created new friends at our neighbor's birthday party
He was caught cheating in the examination .
He was hunted by the police after committing murder .
Children were shocked by the sudden death of their teacher .
Our netball team is not strong enough to win the game .
Make sure you brush your teeth .
I supported myself throughout the University .
The machines in the coffee factory were operating at a high speed .
She didn't have the fighting skills to protect her family from danger .
I agree with the settlement terms in this country .
Children are gifts from God .
He was the first to present his ideas before others .
Illegal hunting threatens the survival of the animals .
The food he ate was so tasty .
I had a long wait at the airport because of the long queues at the security checkpoints .
She was able to trap her boss into admitting that she was underpaid .
I wanted to do that job .
Our school head prefect is an inspirational leader .
With confidence ,  he said that God saved his life .
Parents want their children to have better lives than them .
The coronavirus pandemic has changed people's lives .
I saved your life .
She is staying with that man for her children's sake .
May your marriage be blessed with joy ,  peace ,  and love .
I would like to be married in church .
Many people in Bududa were left homeless as a result of the earthquake .
Some youth spend most of their time on social media .
Parents need to counsel their children not to engage themselves in bad behavior .
He donated boxes of soap to the orphanage home .
Some teenage girls in villages cannot afford to buy sanitary pads .
The organization is sponsoring students who are good at any sports activity .
My daughter is learning how to plait hair .
She is concerned about his brother's mental health .
He sent his son to collect money from the tenants .
She donates a lot of money for charity .
Your business has expanded greatly over the last year .
Marriage requires both partners to be patient with each other .
Eating certain foods may help reduce the risk of cancer .
We need to dedicate some time to commune with God .
He is so passionate about fashion and fitness .
Every person must have an architectural plan before they begin to construct .
Please give me something to eat .
Trees play an important role in climate change reduction .
You have to make a choice .
She is pursuing a degree in fashion and design .
I want to tell you the reasons why I dropped out of school .
He encouraged people to plant trees in their compounds .
When a mango tree reaches maturity ,  it produces mangoes .
Flowers make the compound look more beautiful .
My cousin is a photographer .
There are beautiful flowers in my garden .
There are valuable species of trees in that forest .
Trees help in preventing flooding and soil erosion .
Saving will enable you to accumulate money for future investments .
Do not cut down the tree that gives you shade .
I advise you to plant pine trees on that piece of land .
Trees must be spaced at the time of planting .
Some types of trees can survive in desert areas .
There are many wild animals in this forest .
He has a garden of flowers in his compound .
The tree in our compound is deciduous .
Some tree leaves are used as medicine .
I must withdraw some money from the bank .
Please accept my apologies for not being able to attend your graduation ceremony .
Let me show you how to do it .
The president's speech was broadcasted on all radio stations yesterday .
She is a comedian .
He joined another television station as a news anchor .
The room was painted blue .
People love him because of his generous character .
Do not say anything that you might regret later on .
The student apologized for the delay in handing in her assignment .
It takes time to build confidence when you are learning a new skill .
She is looking at the stars .
She is talented at playing netball .
He sent me a threatening message .
I saw no justice in the court's decision .
We should stop discriminating people because of their skin color .
Most black-skinned people think white-skinned people are rich .
The police arrested the gang of boys who murdered that old woman .
He did not participate in the discussion .
The three players were racially abused by the supporters after the final match .
This book was published recently .
The police should have questioned other people about the case .
He has gone to the studio to record a song .
I got four aggregates in my Primary Leaving Examinations .
Students learn faster in practical lessons .
He was succeeded by his youngest son .
Most men marry at the age of thirty .
I studied at the best university in Uganda .
Our new neighbor is a police officer .
Meat can be preserved by smoking .
She takes lessons in sewing .
He was attacked by wild animals .
The company is hiring people with four years of experience in the profession .
Everyone aims at earning a stable income .
The protesters threw stones at the police during the November protests .
The teacher punished her for speaking vernacular during school hours .
She died of a heart attack .
Our Member of Parliament opened up a new hospital in the district .
Uganda Airlines has four planes .
I was surprised to find him at your home .
He grabbed the pen from me while I was writing .
They called off their strike after meeting with the trade minister .
I found a young girl riding a motorcycle .
They were involved in an accident while returning from the party .
Gulu university held its graduation ceremony today .
They were captured on the security camera breaking into the house .
He built his mother a new house .
She was caught red-handed in a lodge with her friend's husband .
My sister is good at drawing pictures .
He usually plays games on the phone in his free time ,  instead of reading books .
Our new teacher is a Kenyan .
She lost all her academic documents in the fire .
This president has ruled the country since its independence .
When the bell rang ,  the students went home .
The students shared their holiday experiences on the first day of the new term .
What did you do during the last holidays ?
My phone fell into the water .
They always walked to school in a big group .
The bridge across the river was destroyed by the heavy rains .
She stopped studying when she got pregnant .
My young brother dipped his hands in hot porridge .
It is dangerous to ride a bicycle in the rain .
He lost the court case .
We have delayed reaching because the vehicle got stuck in the mud .
Our school built a new library .
It is important to wear a life jacket when you are on a boat .
The firefighters saved the young boy who was trapped in the burning house .
I would have drowned if the fishermen didn't help me .
There has been an increase in domestic violence cases during this lockdown .
He had to repeat primary five after performing poorly in the final exams .
My sister is addicted to her phone .
His girlfriend comes from northern Uganda .
A mad man was knocked by a police car .
The children walked back home together .
His mother was thankful to God for protecting her son .
It is good to say thank you to God .
You saved my boy because you knew how to swim .
His father bought him a new school uniform at the beginning of the term .
Each time I see this picture ,  I remember my father .
If the river is flooding ,  don't cross it .
The government is constructing a new power dam on that river .
The boys narrated to the teacher what had happened .
When it started raining ,  the girls took shelter under the mango tree .
He easily gets annoyed .
I am sure you have something you can wear for the party .
The English lesson will begin at midday .
The government created new cities last year .
He is strong as a horse .
She is the only girl in her class .
My uncle works from morning to evening .
He got a job as a security guard at the bank .
Some medicines must be taken after eating food .
Many girls do not like participating in sports activities .
They held a fundraising drive for the construction of a new church .
My brother took the cattle to graze in a nearby field .
They talked about their experiences as mothers .
My daughter has outgrown most of her dresses .
He hurt his knee when he fell .
My driving license expired last week .
Some ladies love wearing artificial nails .
Some people in our village use donkeys for transport .
He did not like the way his boss used to talk about fellow employees .
He finished the exam before anyone else in the room .
My parents agreed to contribute to my trip .
Everyone desires to live in good conditions .
The doctors threatened to go on strike if their monthly wages are not increased .
The government is constructing a new airport in Hoima district .
He resigned from his job .
She hired a driver that will drive his children to and from school .
Most drivers did not go to driving school .
My school won the inter-school districts competition .
Many young men spend their time arguing about football .
He bought an ambulance for the people in his area .
The Ethiopian airline is the largest airline in Africa .
He is paid three million Ugandan shillings every month .
The luggage was too heavy for her to carry .
Some students are forced to read books .
He constructed a walk fence around his home .
She keeps vomiting after eating .
Her life improved when she got a job .
My children get enough rest during the weekend .
He smokes cigarettes every day .
He took his shoes to the cobbler .
At school ,  we eat beans and rice for lunch every Sunday .
People are not allowed in the taxi park .
My sister has a bad handwriting .
My cousin is very wise despite her young age .
The girls went to the market to buy clothes .
My friend got a job just after her graduation .
The young girl wanted to follow her sisters to the market .
She followed her mother to the garden .
My father traveled to Kampala on Sunday .
She broke the television screen .
My grandfather was a great mathematician .
She escaped from home to attend her friend's party .
He lost his school identity card .
Our party was disrupted by rain .
That old woman is looking for shelter .
Their car ran out of fuel before reaching home .
He hit the snake with a big stick and killed it .
My brother milks the cows every morning .
My shoes are made from leather .
She told me to wake her up when the teacher enters the class .
The wind has blown all your clothes off the hanging wire .
She makes good saddles from cowhide .
He approached me and asked for my daughter's hand in marriage .
He sang a very beautiful song at my wedding .
We rushed to the school noticeboard when we heard that our results had been released .
He was shot dead because he refused to raise his hands .
The girl was brave enough to kill a snake .
The school matron woke up all students and told them to prepare for classes .
My sister was born deaf .
He took his clothes to the tailor for mending .
Tears rolled down her cheek when she heard that her father had died .
Your brother ran away from the village with my money .
My wife does not want our children to do house chores .
Their father has died in an accident .
A tree fell and hit a man .
The patient was already dead by the time they arrived at the hospital .
Trees provide us with shade .
The boy escaped from school without anyone noticing .
Drink water whenever you feel thirsty .
He fell into a deep well and drowned .
I am the smallest amongst the children in my class .
She wants us to help her in carrying the luggage to the dormitory .
No one is going to help you in carrying that bag .
She came back from the well with an empty jerrycan .
Most of the girls at my school drink alcohol .
He has not left any money for buying food .
The elephant is the largest animal in the world .
Some students attend lectures when they are drunk .
Most people drink a lot of alcohol when they feel stressed .
She lost a lot of blood during delivery .
We did not plant any food this season .
The police searched everywhere in the country but could not find our daughter .
My brother moved from one office to another in search for a job .
You look tired ,  you need to rest .
She cut banana leaves to cover the food .
She thought I did not know how to play cards .
We made a mat from papyrus reeds .
The president may impose another lockdown due to an increase in the number of coronavirus cases .
We hurried to chase the thief that had stolen a motorcycle from our friend .
The president was welcomed to our village by the Member of Parliament for our constituency and other leaders .
My suitcase looks heavy ,  but it is very light .
She accidentally swallowed a fish bone while she was eating .
The teacher left the class in anger .
The man I am showing you is holding a stick .
Her aunt took her to the city to work as a maid .
The girl that saved other students from the fire died as a hero .
The president narrated to us a story of the woman who fought for his life .
That man saved me from the men that wanted to rape me .
The students were punished for making noise in class .
We shall have the leaders' meeting tomorrow .
Northern Uganda is a sparsely populated region .
She gave an edited version of my speech .
That girl is not her child .
The school management will sit to discuss the decline in the school's academic performance .
She has not disclosed the dates when students are to go back to school .
Your mother is calling you to wash utensils .
Students need a break of five minutes every after a lesson .
My parents told me that they used to study under a tree .
My uncle spent ten years in prison .
My sister puts a lot of sugar in tea .
I heard my father talking about going to work in foreign countries .
I cannot believe that the person I talked to yesterday is dead .
He was arrested after making jokes out of the president's speech .
Place the bottles of soda in ice cubes to keep the soda cold .
I was impressed by your confidence in answering questions .
My brother failed to eat his lunch because his tooth was aching .
I got my jacket from the clothes that were brought to the orphanage .
So many students buy books from his shop because he gives them sweets .
He has never changed his behavior of talking while eating .
Your brother does not reply to my messages lately .
She gave birth to her fifth child .
She gave us bread .
Whoever attended her wedding was served a piece of cake .
Everyone ate four slices of bread while taking tea .
I do not think my cousin is this greedy .
He is worried that he may be late for the job interview .
Few people buy from his shop because it is dirty .
I thought all shops sell sugar at the same price .
I passed the tailor's place to check whether she had finished making my dress .
He organized an abrupt birthday party to surprise his young sister .
Most fruits are eaten raw .
That type of sugarcane is usually sweet and juicy .
The girls were happy when their mother excused them from fetching water .
We should be thankful to the people that pay our school fees .
I will bring you your science textbook as soon as I find it .
He gave me two apples to share amongst ourselves .
Do your children know how to count money ?
Some teachers have resorted to informal employment .
You will use the remaining apples to make juice for lunch .
Few people received the covid relief funds .
Give me three reasons why you did not come to school yesterday .
Many countries are battling with the new wave of coronavirus .
You can get fresh vegetables from the market .
The rescue team arrived on time to evacuate the people .
Please help me with my luggage .
May I see your photo ?
Do you have any sports channels on your package ?
I hurt my leg because I was moving in the dark .
He has many fans around the world .
The football players have gone on vacation .
I saw the look of eagerness on his face .
They were ordered to sit on the ground .
My only complaint about the house is the wooden floor .
The police officer helped the children cross the road .
She wants to have a baby boy .
My mother has gone to see the pastor .
He met his real parents when he was sixteen years old .
He is afraid of going to the police station .
Her fianc does not want to meet her family .
The family rejoiced when their son was released from prison .
We do not keep things that are not ours .
The old furniture is kept in the store .
The leader will be addressing the villagers on Saturday .
Who took their wedding photos ?
What do men do during paternity leave ?
The ultra-scan showed the baby .
The umbrella does not belong to him .
The doctors could not believe that he was healed .
Her baby has been discharged .
His cow has been missing since last week .
He went to the health center because he felt weak .
They are planning a surprise birthday party .
Who remembers Kampala capital city festivals ?
We had so much fun yesterday .
The dancers are so stiff .
We took some pictures at the festival .
She carried some blankets to the campfire .
He answered only two questions .
The festival boosts craft materials .
She was born in October .
They are performing today at the club .
He takes a glass of red wine every day .
We are having a blast at the party .
We look forward to positive engagement with them .
I will share the document with you later .
The elderly lady has pain in her limbs and back .
Trees have a life expectancy of around sixty years .
I want to retire from my job at fifty years .
His children neglected him .
She is now begging for money on the streets .
He has worked at that factory for over ten years .
He is working so hard .
It is our responsibility to keep children safe .
I cant believe she lied to us .
Some people are careless .
We have been friends for a long time .
Does our culture define who we are ?
He follows international politics .
Some women experience joint pain during pregnancy .
I have sent her to the market .
He produces juice for the local market only .
My mother is very good at cooking .
The farmer has bought planting seeds .
I would like to buy an acre of land .
The farmer has two children .
His plants are growing .
Is that soil fertile ?
She is allergic to cold weather .
She spends a lot of time in the garden .
I am going to hang clothes .
We need to replace all the bulbs in the house .
The nuts are too hard to crack .
He is the owner of the store .
The launch will take place tomorrow .
He lost his family during the war .
Our tour was put on hold .
I miss my mother .
They were partying all night
He wants to become a priest .
He has to pay for the damages he put on my car .
The house is very dirty .
I am taking my daughter to dancing school .
I placed the framed pictures in a box .
Lawyers look smart in suits .
His family is so poor .
Who is interested in buying this property ?
He always comes home late .
His father died when he was two years old .
Have you thought of registering your business ?
Starting her own business was a good idea .
He concentrates so much on computer games .
Her youngest daughter witnessed the crime .
My son is playing video games with his father .
She is singing for her little sister .
He is a good driver .
It was nice catching up with you .
He is an expert in agriculture .
Some parents discourage their children from joining the military .
He is going for industrial training .
Court will freeze his assets if he is found guilty .
The military vehicles we saw yesterday were carrying food .
The police made sure that civilians don't get hurt .
His truck was used to carry cargo during the war .
She uses the cloth material to make cushions .
My aunt retired from her job when she was sixty years old .
The communications officer refused to give any information to the press .
He volunteered to chair the meeting .
His driving license will expire next week .
I do not feel like going to the office today .
The matter was settled in court .
She has kept a high profile during her first year as a school director .
I have a meeting with my boss today .
His son will be his successor .
We hired a new house manager .
He has good managerial skills .
She applied to the high court for a judicial review .
This implies that women can also be Chief Executive Officers .
His family will take over his property when he travels .
She is now a senior officer .
The mayor will assume office next month .
The desert locusts ate all the maize in the garden .
Don't spray pesticides near the children's playground .
His crops were damaged by the strong wind .
They could not go swimming because the waves were very strong .
He is part of the climate change team .
The heavy rains washed away the soil .
They saw a swarm of bees in the forest .
The prisoners went on a hunger strike .
The children saw insects in the garden .
He controls traffic on the road .
Experts say locusts move in the direction of the wind .
What is the total population of Uganda ?
The sky is blue .
We arrived from the village yesterday .
Some insects are edible .
They carry out farming on a large scale .
Women and men are so vulnerable .
He endured a lot of pain .
The country is experiencing a severe drought .
He kept saying that his life was such a disaster .
They were all shocked when she walked into the room .
The firm dragged him to court over corruption .
He got lost in the desert .
The children planted trees in the compound .
The farmers expected rain at the beginning of this month .
We have similar hobbies .
He does not play any sport .
She has a sentimental attachment to the dress .
He really loves his job .
Only adults are allowed to drive cars .
He has a unique outfit .
Do you know who his father is ?
What are your hobbies ?
He failed to answer the question .
Who is not afraid of being infected with coronavirus ?
Everyone is concerned about her health .
The meeting is only for support staff .
People fear mass gatherings because of coronavirus .
She promised to buy her grandmother new clothes .
He takes care of his body .
He had to get medical clearance so as to participate in the match .
The organizing committee did a great job .
Passengers were left stranded .
There are two entrances to the venue .
They granted us access to the room .
She is warming up the food for dinner .
There is limited access to the building which is under construction .
Her daughter likes putting on sports shoes .
She ran up to the finishing line .
How many people are expected to attend the party ?
She cleans her house before going to work .
People cant move without putting on masks .
The traditional ceremony took place last week .
His wife teaches their children discipline .
He has updated the database .
Only twenty people attended the event .
Some funds were allocated to fieldwork .
They found him with stolen items in the house .
He went to his brother's office to get some money .
I am preparing documents for the meeting tomorrow .
She needs money to go to the market .
He has not yet recovered from malaria .
Court denied him bail .
My son wants to be a judge when he grows up .
Most people who claim compensation for injury feel entitled .
His assets were confiscated when he failed to pay the loan .
They say he was involved in corruption .
Some Ugandans like playing golf .
They are winning the match .
He is involved in sports .
When she was a youth ,  she would travel around East Africa .
She said Uganda will win the competition
Parents always defend their children .
Uganda was involved in the war .
My aunt has white flowers in her garden .
She drove the car past the golf club .
His sons also play golf .
She is good at playing tennis .
Temporary barriers were installed to stop cars from entering .
His uncle was involved in a car accident .
Her son was diagnosed with cancer .
He won the fight .
They celebrate Christmas in the village .
The children are waiting for the teacher to read for them a story .
He drove slowly behind the truck .
The farmer claims that the land belongs to him .
She is a talented fashion designer .
These days ladies are capable of challenging men .
Her husband took a break from work because of her health .
The lame ducks cannot swim properly .
Her husband treats her like a queen .
She reads magazines as she waits for her coffee .
My brother will be our son's godfather .
Her mother inspired her to start baking .
My niece could not finish the juice because it was stale .
Children like to play hide and seek .
She is a brilliant student .
He turned eighteen yesterday .
The finance manager has gone to the bank .
He took a break from acting .
My son follows me everywhere .
I will return the book tomorrow .
She managed to complete the race despite having an injury .
The pupils did their work on time .
He is a professional accountant .
He started his career immediately after graduation .
The coach said we will train for two hours only .
Our sons play golf together .
The police report indicates that there has been an increase in motor accidents .
My neighbor gave birth to twins .
My daughter was among the best students in the school .
She borrowed two history books from the library .
He showed us his new shoes .
The thieves snatched her handbag as she moved across the street .
Uganda cranes topped the table .
We had to add him to the guest list .
My cousin will compete in the singing competition .
When he got up he felt dizzy ,  so he sat again .
Can you wake up early tomorrow ?
The local farmer harvests big watermelons .
They celebrated twenty years of marriage .
She collapsed on stage during the performance .
He prefers to work with an individual rather than a company .
He was suspended from playing football .
The sports ground has not been in use since March last year .
Women can also play football .
He looked sad when he left the house .
She has been working abroad for two years .
The media captured the whole event .
The judges will select the finalists .
The lecturer told his students to write an essay about the lockdown .
He is a footballer .
His fans welcomed him back to the game .
They had a discussion behind closed doors .
The dinner was scheduled for Friday evening .
The party will take place at a restaurant near home .
She said she has some good news for us .
Children are expected to start school next month .
The swimming competitions will take place tomorrow .
Please buy me some newspapers from the supermarket .
He is playing in the top finals .
The team is looking forward to the next season .
Some children suffer a lot from bacterial infections .
The basketball tournament was postponed to next year .
He travels to different countries every year .
He is a quick decision-maker .
A number of patients were admitted to the hospital .
She wants to visit two cities in Uganda .
We are ready to set off .
The meeting was postponed because of an emergency .
She cut off communication with him after the divorce .
What are the symptoms of malaria ?
We met at his office today .
My suspicion was confirmed by the laboratory tests
He had no clue that the detective was following her .
The Tigers got the bird flu virus after eating raw chicken .
She is writing an essay about coronavirus .
The health officers quickly attended to her when she arrived at the hospital .
She looks weak today ,  is she sick ?
I am teaching my children to manage their emotions .
European countries lost very many people to coronavirus .
He is a medical student .
She found favor before the boss .
Her parents sent her to stay with her rich uncle .
Mother makes special clothes with ribbons ,  buttons and beads .
My uncle lives in a nearby village .
We streamed the show live via YouTube .
She mopped the house .
I was also on my way to work .
We set off from church at the same time .
The woman was smartly dressed in beautiful clothes .
The tailor gave her the dress to try on .
She gave out some of her clothes to the needy .
What is the importance of a tail on animals ?
The necklace was made from small beads .
Why are you wearing a sweater on such a hot day ?
There are seven hills in Kampala .
You have to pay back my money .
My sister and I wear the same size of shoes .
Our field is on two acres of land .
We reached late for the party .
It is not good to take what does not belong to you .
We are still working online because of the pandemic .
Most people in his village live in huts .
She pushed her friend into the swimming pool .
The poor man's children wear clothes with holes .
Every minister is given a security car .
After eating food ,  we had to leave the restaurant .
The women turned to look at the handsome man .
The cow dung which is in the kraal will be taken to the garden as manure .
The old man's hut was burnt down .
My niece is an intelligent girl .
The criminal hid away from the police .
Why do her children look miserable ?
My uncle stays alone in his house .
I met him on my way to the well .
Someone stole my clothes from the wire .
Some people are miserable because of the problems they have .
I first heard that song on the radio .
The song has simple lyrics .
She walked while singing to herself .
He listens only to gospel songs .
What happened to your leg ?
She hides her money under the mattress .
We laid a trap in order to catch the rats .
Grandmother drinks milk tea every morning .
After digging the holes ,  we placed the seeds into the ground .
All the girls in the village took part in the netball competitions .
He was worried about what his children will eat tomorrow
She drank a cold glass of juice because she was thirsty .
The dog's tail was cut off .
Men disrespected her because of her dressing style
She jumped from the tall building and broke her leg .
At home ,  we do the housework in turns .
He successfully jumped the wide trench .
Some cows do not produce milk .
He mixed the sand with cement and water .
We reached the end of the road and turned back .
She started staying with her uncle when her mother died .
What does it take to become an author ?
What is the source of this information ?
We read a number of African storybooks in the literature class .
Some foreign companies have exited the Ugandan market .
Who is your best friend ?
He passed his examinations in first grade .
She is always the best student in the class .
His schoolmates admire his intelligence .
My son is excellent at reading and writing .
She comes from very far but she is always early at school .
I have read a lot of books .
He spends all his free time reading .
How much pocket money do your parents give you ?
He bought a book from his savings .
I do not have any money in my pocket .
The cows are milked in the morning and evening .
On average ,  how many liters of milk can one cow produce ?
His father has a dairy shop .
At what time does the herdsman take the cows for grazing ?
He milks the cows every day after work .
His father gives him pocket money so that he can buy eats while at school .
The boy saves his money in a saving box .
She eats raw carrots .
What kind of vegetables do you grow ?
He has twenty employees working on his farm .
We ate raw cabbages in the salads .
How many people will be invited to the function ?
His father warned him against being rebellious .
He milks the cows with his own hands .
Winter is associated with snow .
Rain is the main natural source of water .
It is healthy for a human being to drink water on a daily basis .
She put water into the bucket and went to bathe .
He can carry a twenty-liter jerrycan of water .
A bucket is one of the school requirements in a boarding school .
We poured food into the trough for the hens and cocks to eat .
The truck brought seven trips of sand .
She had a challenge of solving mathematical problems .
How much is a fifty kilogram sack of sugar ?
She plans for all her weekly expenses .
Why do people save money ?
What do you get when you subtract two from four ?
The month of February has twenty eight to twenty nine days .
He milks the cows twice a day .
Local breed cows do not produce a lot of milk .
He wants to learn how to milk cows .
One day ,  I will have my own livestock farm .
The quantity of milk is measured in litres .
How much does a litre of milk cost ?
He donates litres of milk to the school feeding scheme every Monday .
Milk is highly perishable .
The children drank the milk yesterday .
His father gives him a commission on each litre of milk he sells .
How many litres of milk does he sell in a day ?
How often do you visit the bookshop ?
His father bought him a History textbook .
He loves to play basketball .
Is it true that milk helps to build strong bones and teeth ?
Vegetables help in building a strong and healthy body .
I rarely fall sick .
Thank you very much ,  sir .
My mother eats spinach leaves .
He is strong ,  healthy and clever .
He is attentive in class and that is why he is among the top students .
Why is she your best friend ?
Make more friends than enemies .
The young man was very respectful to his parents and to all the other people in the village .
What is the name of the school you study from ?
I do not know why Monday is a busy day for most people .
At what time do you leave school ?
People make friends through conversations .
He joined the company of bad people .
The kind of friends you have can influence your character .
Bad character corrupts good morals .
Bullies make other people's lives miserable .
He took a lot of alcohol and became very drunk .
Sexually Transmitted Diseases are contracted through sexual contact .
He made jokes that made us laugh .
Clinics bring medical services closer to people .
He got better after the medication .
It is good to take off some time and reflect .
Some friends are indirectly our enemies .
She works at school as a cleaner .
She taught her children how to behave well in public .
While he was drunk ,  he embarrassed his wife before everyone .
My friend has very many enemies .
He wrote the story in his mother tongue .
My brother is reading a school book .
My mother is reading her bible .
My sister is reading a recipe book .
My uncle is sitting in his chair reading a newspaper .
We bought a bridal magazine .
I was looking at the pictures in the album .
He read his class notes and passed the examinations .
In my family ,  we are all light-skinned .
Why are most medicines sour ?
Uganda is one of the countries with a high crime rate .
He has a lot of money saved on his bank account .
She planted cassava on two acres .
What inspired you to become a lawyer ?
The two best friends have the same surname .
He drinks alcohol every evening .
The whole village knows that her husband is a drunkard .
The poison he took killed him instantly .
People were running away from tear gas .
There was no salt in the food .
We pray together as a family every night before going to bed .
We had noise in the neighborhood and woke up .
Hyenas are said to be cunning animals .
We are tired of people who do not respect others .
He tricked the woman and stole her bag .
She waited for her husband to come back home .
Sometimes our father does not come back at home .
He got himself into danger .
The children ran outside the house to welcome their father .
The woman does not know the father of her child .
His leg suddenly got swollen .
She tried to bleach in order to change her dark skin .
Some of the stories he told us were true .
His father taught him how to do carpentry work .
The journey was thirty kilometers long .
Some of the workers live on the farm .
He is very brave and adventurous .
I bought a goat at three hundred thousand Ugandan shillings .
The herd of cattle lives next to the goats .
They have been friends since high school .
How did the couple manage to maintain their friendship over these years ?
She makes bracelets from beads .
My friend gifted me a bracelet .
What did you use to make these bracelets ?
The bracelet had a piece of red and blue wool .
Some people do not have friends .
The friends are happy together .
Some people stole our cow in the night .
Only half of the cattle survived the disease .
The rest of her herd fell sick and died .
We set off for the journey in the morning .
My sister has a gap in between her teeth .
He has a wide chest .
People make wooden bridges to cross the wide trenches .
The tree branches are long .
She has long hair .
His legs are hurting because he walked a long distance .
People drink a lot of water on hot days .
There was no water on the tap .
What are some of the importances of rivers ?
A surface with algae is usually slippery .
He slipped and fell in the bathroom .
There was a huge crocodile at the surface of the water .
It is good to scream while you're in danger .
The cows gave us a lot of meat .
She managed to catch the ball that he threw at her .
The rope was made of pieces of colorful wool .
We used the rope to skip .
The rope was used to tie the mattress .
She was wearing a black long skirt .
We tied a rope in the cow's neck .
Many banks have been opened up in Uganda .
The best friends were overjoyed and hugged each other when they met .
We were curious to know what happened at the party .
He uses machines on his farm .
The dog that was chasing the boys bit one of them .
Running is a very good exercise for the body .
The farm is enclosed by the fence .
I found very many missed phone calls from my mother .
The cattle were returned to the farm after grazing .
We had a reunion party at school
The group of friends joined resources and started a charity organization .
How long is the journey from here to town ?
Her grandfather was once the chairman of the village .
Mother sent her to fetch water from the well .
She met some of her friends at the university .
He wanted to join us on the trip but he wasn't able to .
She patiently waited for God to answer her prayers .
I waited for him at the gate .
The forest land was gazetted by the government .
She ran off to fetch water .
She cares for her friends a lot .
Very few people use that path .
The junction has routes leading to different directions .
She wondered which path the friends had taken .
We got lost because the driver used the wrong route .
She fell asleep on the bus .
He woke up in the middle of the night to eat .
People with sickle cells disease usually have yellowish eyes .
Most people are scared of going to hell after death .
Whenever I feel hungry ,  I eat .
By the tone in her voice ,  I could tell that she was angry .
She is too proud to plead for anyone's help .
He decided to plant eucalyptus trees on his bare piece of land .
The human body is made up of bones .
She lay down and pretended to be asleep .
The children were whispering to each other in the dark .
The people died from the smoke fire .
Boiled water is safe for drinking .
She brought her baby to church so that the pastor could pray for him .
There are rules that govern the people in the village .
When my father comes back home late ,  he eats the food alone .
We had lunch together .
Her in-laws love her so much .
He picks his children from school every weekend .
My brother and sister are always arguing .
We sell most of the food crops from our garden .
We all used different directions but reached the event at the same time .
Fire is very destructive .
Why do some people snore while sleeping ?
The lady sat on the small stool and it broke .
There is only one way to church .
I would like to fly in an aeroplane .
The witness says that he saw everything with his eyes .
How do you deal with disappointments in life ?
It was too late for him to enroll in school .
Having spent several years out of the country ,  most people could not recognize her .
Her father and mother ran out to meet her .
The parents thanked God for saving their child from death .
She quickly adjusted to the new environment .
The children were playing on the swings .
She has beautiful chairs in her sitting room .
The nursery school has a variety of swings .
She fell off the swing .
The swing takes her forward and backward .
What do children enjoy about playing on the swings ?
There is snow at the top of the mountain .
Most of the minerals are got from the ground .
She was flying high up in the sky .
He called out her name to see if she was home .
People take drugs in order to feel emotionally high .
When she was flying in the helicopter ,  she could see the whole village from above .
We put a ladder for her to climb down from the tall building .
The little children were fighting over the swing .
She called me by my sister's name .
There is no way she could stop the swing from moving .
Up and down ,  the children jumped and played at the bouncing castle .
He talked while shivering because he was frightened .
With this advancement in technology ,  some people have visited the moon .
She fell off the motorcycle while it was still moving .
We take the children to the park to play on the swings .
The building that was still under construction fell down .
Her brother sympathized with her .
She fell on the rough ground and lost one of her teeth .
My head has been hurting since morning .
Crying is not a solution to your problems .
The other children were not interested in the chess game .
He did not know how bed bugs looked like .
She makes a lot of noise when crying .
Teachers watch over the children while at school .
My mother is calling you .
He fell off the swing and hurt his mouth .
Children who fall sick while at school are first taken to the sickbay .
The monkeys were swinging from one tree branch to another .
The priest asked the bridegroom to kiss the bride .
He performed better than his elder sister .
Avoid walking alone at night .
Adults should watch over the children while they are playing on the swings .
Who was the first man to go to the moon ?
How do you distinguish fake products from the original ones ?
People can now shop online using the internet .
There is a lot of information available on the internet .
I started up a piggery project last year .
Some cows have long horns while others have short ones .
Besides her parents ,  no one else knew her right age .
Pigs do not have horns .
He did not report to work yesterday .
Candles are made of wax .
The party will take place on Saturday .
Why do some livestock farmers dehorn their cattle ?
Cows ,  goats and sheep are examples of domestic animals with horns .
Animals use their horns for defense purposes .
People say that pigs are dirty animals .
Darkness cannot drive out darkness .
There are various breeds of pigs in Uganda .
Dogs usually have a wet nose .
Pigs are commonly reared for commercial purposes .
We hold a party every new year's eve .
The people who attended the party ate and danced the whole night .
Seeing her children happy makes her happy too .
The pig uses the snout to search for food .
Do we have any zebras in Uganda ?
The performers sang a folk song after the drama play .
The clever students understand faster than the rest during the lesson .
Rabbits are small animals .
Animals also have families .
She talks and dreams big .
Why do people visit others ?
I sleep with my sister in the same bedroom .
He wants to use machines to help him plough the garden .
We went to the shopping mall to buy baby clothes .
Most of her guests are going to sleep over at our house .
No one cared about the mad man in our village .
Factories can save energy .
The youngest of the triplets is taller than the rest .
When we were young ,  our parents used to make decisions on our behalf .
The squirrels ,  birds and caterpillars are some of the pests that attack crops .
Caterpillars are commonly found on leaves and trees .
We used flowers to decorate the place .
The mice ate some of our clothes .
There were many mosquitoes breeding in the bush .
There are many insects in the soil .
He looked for his coin and found it .
She wept over the death of her dog .
Children are usually more free and open with their mothers .
He cleared his throat before giving his speech .
Birds do not have teeth .
We hit the snake with a stone on the head and killed it .
We do not have underground trains in Uganda .
He stumbled and fell on the stone .
She referred to him as a Mister because she did not know his name .
We believe that life is a blessing from God .
It is good to get to know our distant relatives .
Some people have created artificial ponds for rearing fish .
Original products are expensive .
The pupils wrote the notes in their class books .
He always leaves his bedroom locked .
Old people have a lot of stories to tell because they have seen a lot .
We asked our rich uncle to pay for us our school fees for next term .
The teacher told her to write a story about the prince and the princess .
The poor man cannot afford to buy expensive things .
He was unable to pay his bills last month .
How much do the storybooks cost ?
The lion is a fierce animal .
Snakes have poisonous teeth .
People feel safe when the country is politically stable .
The glue was very sticky .
What are your future plans ?
He went home for supper .
He scratched his skin because it was itching .
Help others if you can afford to do so .
We should avoid physical contact to reduce the spread of coronavirus .
The police are trying to trace the person who stole my phone .
Whoever needs the manager should sit in the waiting room .
The doctor needs a medical student to help him at the hospital .
The available coronavirus vaccines are not enough for everyone in the country .
He speaks more than twenty languages .
The scholarship is only for those students with a first-class degree .
That is why I agree with your mother's decision .
The total number of coronavirus deaths in the world is beyond four million people .
India is one of the countries with the highest number of coronavirus patients .
We should follow the standard operating procedures to reduce the spread of coronavirus .
The government plans to immunize everyone in the country .
We are preparing lunch .
The president thanked the doctors who are treating the coronavirus patients .
The government plans to increase science teachers' salaries .
The Ministry of Health recruited more frontline health workers to help in the fight against coronavirus .
He could not go to his office because he was not feeling well .
He has an application on his phone that tracks stolen phones .
Land in the city is expensive compared to the land in the rural areas .
We have reached our destination .
He was the first Ugandan to win an Olympic gold medal .
You need to be precise when presenting to us your project idea .
There is a shortage of land for settlement in Kampala city .
The problem is that she does not want to talk to us .
He was selected to represent the whole University in the debate competition .
The headmaster says that students convicted of violent acts will be expelled .
She is expected to win the chess game .
Two rival netball teams are playing against each other .
I thought you married the other Muslim girl .
We toured the Uganda Martyrs Catholic Shrine in Namugongo .
We won the schools' cricket competition last year .
Some people earn money from football .
My football team has reached the semifinals .
The cricket team from Uganda lost their World Cup qualifier against Namibia .
He got a red card during the match .
My friend was involved in a car accident on Jinja road yesterday .
He is Uganda's best football player .
My uncle is trying to convince me to get married to one of his rich friends .
I did not see much of his work ,  but I believe it was good .
He played cricket for ten years .
I will resume reading this book later in the evening .
He started playing the cricket game while in primary school .
He has reached his retirement age but does not want to leave the job .
She is the happiest person I have ever seen in my life .
That sports tutor trains basketball at our school .
The two brothers played football for the school team .
The couple courted for six months before getting married .
She was the most talented netball player on our team .
The company where I did my second internship relocated to Ntinda .
I will wait for him until he comes home .
She lied to me that she is already employed .
You need to tell your wife the truth .
He signed a new contract with his team .
Actions speak louder than words .
All my brothers play basketball .
My brother is in the surgical ward .
We should remain calm and keep the situation under control .
He was good at Geography while in school .
Those rich men studied from the same school .
The electricity expenses at home have been high this month .
They qualified to play at next year's netball World Cup .
Our school won the football championship last year .
Due to the strict lockdown measures ,  many people in Uganda were not able to move to the villages .
He had to give up his basketball career after getting an accident .
His brother is a pastor .
He signed and sealed the document .
He shifted his focus away from the football game to his job .
Listening to music is a form of entertainment .
She was dissatisfied with the job .
I do not want my children to sit behind in the classroom .
He was elected as the president of the Uganda Basketball Association .
She used to be among the top ten best performers in her class .
She gave out all her clothes to the orphans in her village .
He was voted the most valuable player during the tournament .
Many albinos are discriminated in various communities .
The former prime minister of Kenya is contesting for the presidency .
My brother has done a lot for our family .
He is constructing a new house for his mother in the village .
The president of Guinea was overthrown .
My elder brother is a priest .
He stopped playing for the Uganda national football team .
He got a scholarship to study in Canada .
I was part of the school rugby team while in high school .
She gave birth on her way to the hospital .
Only the first three competitors received awards .
Senegal won the African basketball championships held in Rwanda .
The rebel leader was arrested .
I do not think he will come back here again .
I do not trust his words anymore .
The former president of America wanted to construct a wall around the country .
He works as a journalist with the national television station .
She was arrested as she tried to cross the border to Kenya .
That telecommunication company plans to leave Uganda .
Some young people are involved in gambling .
The building collapsed and killed his parents .
Several people were told to leave that land .
We are going to survey the land .
The war in Somalia has not yet ended .
Kenya received heavy rains last month .
She has some relatives in Tanzania .
He was knocked by a speeding car .
The World Bank has given another loan to Uganda .
Why do you use fertilizers in your garden ?
How many months are left for the year to end ?
That village was attacked by locusts last year .
How many people are in Uganda currently ?
There is a lot of noise coming from your room .
Have you been to Kenya before ?
Some people still struggle to have two meals a day .
The maize was eaten by the locusts .
Do you have food at your place ?
He no longer runs every morning .
The chairman of this village is so kind .
She was attacked by armed robbers last night .
The pastoralists have greatly been affected by the drought .
There is little water in the tank .
The majority of the people are still struggling to get vaccinated .
I am too hungry to think .
When is the wedding ?
This story is not making sense .
Several farmers will be affected by the drop in maize prices .
This weather is not favorable for planting beans .
He has called for an ambulance .
She gave birth to immature babies .
Do you know his real name ?
This is my first child .
The examination has started .
His wife is sick .
Have you talked to your brother ?
I was called for a job interview .
I will go to the chairperson tomorrow morning .
I left the baby sleeping .
This is not good news .
She has spent three weeks in the intensive care unit .
Seventy five people were struck by lightning in Congo .
He is dressed in a white shirt .
Someone left the door open .
The attention has been focused on treating coronavirus .
The ambulance arrived very late .
Those men were fighting for a bottle of water .
The car does not have fuel .
How much do you pay for rent ?
The shopkeeper has arrived .
The nurses are few at this hospital .
Will your friend be able to help us ?
We cannot extend the meeting to a later date .
The teacher did not teach us this topic .
He has taken his son to school .
This information is scary .
He works with the World Health Organization .
You won't lose your son .
It is too cold out there .
The baby is crying .
The team that he supports lost the game .
His uncle has been put on a life support machine .
I want to get insurance coverage for my child .
She gave birth to a baby girl .
The nurse talks rudely to the patients .
He took his wife to her mother after giving birth .
How many cars do you have ?
He spends one million Ugandan shillings daily on hospital bills .
These trousers don't fit me properly .
The doctor has not yet arrived .
How will you raise all this money ?
My baby is sick .
Do you know how to drive a car ?
Where is the document that I gave you yesterday ?
He is the oldest man in this village .
He is committed to his job .
We are required to pay at least two million Ugandan shillings .
The fire started from the kitchen .
You have been invited to attend the wedding .
We are still looking for more money .
The government spends less money on the health system .
Do our leaders ever listen to our opinions ?
The national budget hasnt been taken to parliament .
She didnt respond to my question .
How many districts are in Uganda ?
I dont know what to say .
She has stopped breastfeeding .
Do you know the number of doctors in this country ?
Are these twins your children ?
She spent the whole night crying .
He was rushed to the hospital last night .
The babies were underweight .
This bottle did not have a cover .
These girls are still young .
We are welcoming any support .
Do you have some money on you ?
I am almost getting done .
He sold that piece of land to my friend .
What did you buy from the market ?
I did not expect to find you here .
We want to build another ward at this hospital .
He did not know what to do .
I have a request to make .
My friends helped me a lot when I was sick .
Why should I worry about the future ?
Dont lose hope ,  everything will be fine .
The transport fees are high .
I can't see the money that I put in my bag .
She will surely help you .
The doctor wants to talk to you .
I am waiting for the traffic lights to turn red .
What do you want me to do ?
My network is unstable .
He ignored the question that I asked him .
She has been referred to another hospital .
How many people will you invite to your wedding ?
He works from India .
She addressed the parliament this afternoon .
I want what is best for my children .
His grandfather feeds through a tube .
Where did you put the keys ?
I can't stand here for so long .
He hasnt talked to me in three days .
Where are the girls playing from ?
He doesn't know how to swim .
Have we met before ?
This door is beautiful .
Let us call him right now .
What is the problem ?
What are the benefits of breastfeeding ?
I haven't taken anything since morning .
My husband no longer returns home early .
Have you talked to your uncle ?
Why did you put this cup here ?
My husband works from home .
There is a certain book that I want to buy .
I am expecting a visitor this afternoon .
This is my fourth year at this company .
I need your advice on something .
What job does your husband do ?
I am going to watch the news .
What can I buy for you ?
She has been married for thirty years .
Your voice is too low .
She reported her husband to the police for beating her .
What plans do you have for tomorrow ?
I want to learn a second language .
What did your husband say ?
She works with the ministry of health .
Where is your son ?
She is eighteen years old .
That classroom has been divided into two sections .
She has gone for a job interview .
The words that you used were not proper .
Where did you find this girl ?
He doesnt know how to use a computer .
Did she say anything about me ?
I can't do anything at this time .
He asked me several questions that I didnt understand .
How many people turned up for the interview ?
What does your mother sell at the market ?
She is sweeping the compound .
Where does your friend study from ?
He put the phone on that table .
He wants to change the education system .
Where has your son gone ?
What do you suggest ?
He didnt give me bread .
Most of the parents attended the meeting .
She knows how to cook .
We are running out of time .
Where are the children ?
Have you filled in those forms ?
We were told to work from home .
She came here with several other children .
You are allowed to speak to your lawyer .
I haven't washed my plates .
They are celebrating thirteen years in marriage .
May I look at your national identity card ,  please .
She wants to join a tertiary institution .
He was not given time to prepare for the interview .
What happened to your eye ?
The announcement was made on the radio .
He did not sign the agreement .
She doesnt think about marriage .
Which color should I select ?
I am taking my academic documents to the manager .
What is your name ?
The minister has called for an emergency meeting .
The national football team players are residing at that hotel .
He stands there every night to look at the stars .
The football stadium has a total of forty thousand seats .
She is washing her clothes .
You will be given a transport refund in case you attend the meeting .
The hotel has been sold .
The next football world cup competition will be hosted by Qatar .
He is the best photographer in this town .
His son is a medical doctor .
What are you looking at ?
She had three music artists at her wedding .
I want to buy a new laptop .
There is someone standing behind the car .
This man was born with one arm .
He teaches at that university .
The group leader is calling you .
We are excited to be here .
He has gone to see the doctor .
I want to go and watch a movie .
When will you plant these beans ?
The moneylender gave me seventy two hours to pay back his money .
Where is the green bucket ?
His son was also among the people that were arrested last night .
The university has released the examination timetable .
He plays for the national cricket team .
Did your father allow you to go to the party ?
I am going to pick my friend from the airport .
The blackout was initially reported on social media .
Did you fry all the eggs ?
He is finalizing with his speech .
They spent three hours cleaning their house .
Have you seen the new school uniform ?
He has gone to visit his brother at school .
She took the picture when the bus was moving .
The school is building a new classroom block .
How many seconds are in two minutes ?
He was cooling the baby's tea .
The thieves broke into the shop .
How many crates of soda should I buy ?
Where do you keep the flasks ?
The ice has melted .
I am going to check on the chicken in the oven .
A two-storey building collapsed in Kampala yesterday .
This lake is one of the deepest lakes in the world .
You spent a lot of time explaining yourself to the teacher .
Where did you find this man ?
Uganda has bought two new passenger planes .
Who has opened that door ?
The moon is too bright tonight .
He wants to go to bed .
Is the brain the most important body part ?
Did you have supper yesterday ?
Her body temperature has increased .
I like being alone .
There is a new teacher in class .
You like spoiling everything that you set your hands on .
Why isn't there light in your room ?
He behaves differently these days .
The kidnappers told the parents not to call the police .
She found a rat in the kettle .
Do you know where the statehouse is found ?
Someone woke me up when I was sleeping .
My friend is a nurse .
How can a person benefit from insurance ?
The student collapsed when the teacher started beating him .
She has written a new book about her father .
The clock no longer works .
Where do you study from ?
I didnt understand what the security guard said .
He has a son who studies at that University .
He has gone for the Climate Change conference in Japan .
Did you know that frogs also lay eggs ?
What is the capital city of Argentina ?
He was involved in an accident which left his arm broken .
May you identify yourself ,  please ?
That shoe is slightly different from mine .
I found a frog on top of that table .
The bank has declared a profit of Uganda shillings two hundred and sixty million .
It is one of the biggest mining companies in Africa .
Where does she stay ?
That school was built out of my parents' efforts .
Most of the girls were impregnated during the holidays .
I was transferred to a new school .
She doesnt have anyone willing to pay her tuition .
How many learners came to school today ?
His son plays football every evening .
The headteacher has called for a staff meeting .
He wants to start up an organization that helps orphans .
The government provided blankets to the people that were affected by the floods .
Does she speak good English ?
Today is my friend's birthday .
What is your dream job ?
The school has more than five hundred learners .
She loves her job .
Thirty two thousand people turned up for vaccination .
They haven't paid school fees .
Her father doesnt care about the life she is living .
The volume of the television is too high .
His last born child is eight years old .
Most of the girls in the villages go with their mothers to the markets .
Do you know of anyone who can lend me some money ?
They are celebrating ten years of marriage .
When did your sister return from the village ?
The school is registering new workers .
What is your primary objective ?
I am going to the football pitch .
How do people cross this river ?
What would you say about your friend ?
They are renovating the classrooms at our school .
The government has offered to renovate the stalls at the community market .
What is happening at that place ?
Her husband is a judge of the High Court .
Which company was contracted to construct the main gate at Makerere University ?
There is no electricity at home .
Has the teacher entered the classroom yet ?
I called you using a friend's phone .
She has gone to gather some firewood from the forest .
The goat has given birth to three kids .
Where is your headteacher's office ?
She sold all the turkeys that she had at her place .
I want to go to town over the weekend .
He has sent me pictures of the new laptop .
I want to buy land .
Does this area have a good network ?
Isn't that a swamp ?
Borehole water is not good for washing clothes .
Wake me up after thirty minutes .
We have taken long without speaking to each other .
She is a very hard working woman .
Who has beaten you ?
How does this machine work ?
This road was renovated by the people of this community .
Her father has been supportive during her education .
The minister planted a tree as a memorial of his visit .
He leaves office early these days .
This land is not for sale .
Do you think the magistrate was bribed ?
The president has passed here in his black car .
Should we expect anything serious from the police ?
The minister for lands is sick .
Haven't you been told not to move at night ?
Land evictions are common these days .
You should start drinking warm water every morning .
The police spokesperson will be addressing the media in a few minutes .
Why are you lying to the people ?
Where does the Chief Justice come from ?
This man has been to China more than once .
He tried to restart the car but it failed .
That teacher always comes late .
We all know that you love her .
I have taken long without taking mango juice .
The football team has bought a new player .
Have you ever sailed in a boat ?
Did you bring the invitation card with you ?
The police has chased the boys that were playing around the building .
He was compensated with one hundred eighty three billion Ugandan shillings for loss of business .
Our wedding ceremony was in the month of June .
His father is a pastor .
The president will address the nation on Saturday .
That piece of land does not belong to him .
The chairperson of the company will address the farmers on the best farming practices .
The land matter was taken to court yesterday .
That is a very nice dress .
This district is ten thousand kilometers away from the Capital City .
They have been asked to vacate the land in two weeks .
Oil was discovered in Uganda fifteen years ago .
He wants to have a meeting with the leaders from the district .
Who pays your salary ?
The words of the minister have been disrespected .
The river has washed away the bridge .
Whose car is that ?
In Uganda ,  refugees have a right to education ,  work ,  private property ,  and healthcare .
We walked by the side of the lake together .
I will answer all the questions that you want to ask .
Do you plan on doing anything this afternoon ?
What is the news about ?
The landlord has given her three days to leave the house .
She is playing in the rain .
The village chairperson did not pass on the information to the people .
He is currently doing research on something .
Which organization do you work for ?
What do you want to tell him ?
He has been our group leader for more than five years .
He wants to build a bigger house .
He was escorted by his friends .
The lawyers did not show up at court .
She was suspended from school after fighting with another student .
He sells men's shirts only .
What is the name of your village ?
I bought this land twenty years ago .
He spent the whole day at the Police station .
History was my best done subject in the final year exams .
My goal is to do at least one mathematics number every day .
Uganda celebrates its independence on the ninth of October every year .
I can help you to achieve your goals .
He wrote a book about the war in Nigeria .
I wish you a safe journey .
She works so hard to support her children .
It hurts to see him struggle this way .
I sat my senior six exams in two thousand eighteen .
She had a breathing problem so she was put on a medical ventilator .
You need to work together as a team .
Most of the things made locally are cheap .
The nurse sees many patients every day .
Your documents will remain safe with us .
His mother reminded him to do his homework before going to bed .
He has a twin sister ,  but they do not look alike .
Some coronavirus vaccines are still under clinical trials .
He is planning to go for further studies .
Some people are complaining about the high tax rates imposed on their businesses .
You should test for malaria and typhoid .
Some products on the market have never been approved by the Uganda National Bureau of Standards .
How many points did you score in your senior six final exams ?
Many hospitals in Uganda are facing an oxygen shortage .
We are encouraged to donate blood to save other people's lives .
There is a water shortage in the whole university .
Uganda's total population is over forty four million people .
The number of coronavirus patients in Uganda is rising at a fast rate .
The president encouraged scientists to come up with innovations .
Some children in villages walk several miles to school .
The presentation was a collaborative effort by all the students in class .
I cannot access his bank account .
I will send a team of students to help you .
What are your school requirements ?
Her mother and sister visited her at school last Sunday .
We shall have the English test five days from now .
You must work hard to be successful .
She applied for a job in her father's company .
We eat fresh fish every Sunday at home .
He transports fish in his car .
I do not want to eat fish because it smells too much .
My grandmother stayed alone in the village .
I noticed a number of cars parking in my uncle's compound .
Gas from vehicles is bad for human health .
You cannot avoid me forever .
He was admitted to the hospital with lung cancer .
That musician died of food poisoning .
Kakira is the biggest sugar factory in Uganda .
You should not leave your food exposed .
My friend tested positive for coronavirus .
My mother sells fried fish by the roadside .
Fish can be preserved by refrigerating it .
The hawker carries fish in a basket and sells them to customers .
Smoking is a good method of preserving fish .
Eating spoilt food may cause diseases like diarrhea .
One of the causes of road accidents is over speeding .
Eating too much processed food poses a health threat to an individual .
She stays in a dusty place .
He donated fish storage refrigerators to the traders .
It is not safe to move alone at night .
The transport fares have increased due to the coronavirus .
Kampala district reported fifty seven more new cases of the coronavirus on Sunday .
Rwanda hosted the African Basketball Championship .
Many traders complained about the space allocations in the new market in Busia .
My mother reminded me to take my medicine in the morning .
They usually leave their children with a housekeeper when they are going to work .
Beijing is the capital city of China .
There are electricity poles that fell during the storm on Sunday .
He was diagnosed with cancer .
The president opened new markets in several districts last year .
Market vendors were asked to sleep in the market during the lockdown .
Most of the companies employ people within the community .
The doctors advise people to include vegetables on every meal .
My grandmother has a garden of mushrooms .
My young sister is afraid of investing in the farming business .
He spent four hundred days in prison .
I have no choice ,  but rather to eat what is available .
Most people want to employ people who are hard working .
This photograph shows you were giving a bribe to the traffic officer .
Uganda received more doses of coronavirus vaccines from America .
We shall buy snacks from the grocery store .
He has a business trip to China .
All my family members did not accept my idea .
The two Members of Parliament were arrested over the murder of people in Masaka .
He fell off the ladder as he was building .
The coronavirus disease started in China before spreading to the rest of the world .
You should maintain good personal hygiene .
A person can contract coronavirus by touching surfaces where an infected person has touched .
My restaurant also offers catering services for parties .
Few people went to the market during the lockdown .
People in Masaka district are living in fear following the recent killings .
My father sells meat in the market .
This disease is really scary .
My uncle bought food from the market .
My sister was selling fruits during the lockdown .
She sang about gender-based violence in her new song .
His mother sent him to the market to buy food .
All students should have their lunch from the dining hall .
The optician tested his eyesight .
My country is working towards establishing companies that produce imported goods so as to reduce its imports .
The musician was born in one thousand nine hundred sixty two .
How much does it cost to get signed to a record label ?
He won an award for the best male artist of the year .
His friend is a minister of the gospel .
The musician died in a car accident .
My grandmother succumbed to breast cancer .
He was one of the best known and most respected singers in Uganda .
My brother started his singing career at the age of five years .
Three Ugandan-based singers will collaborate on a song to raise money for the cancer institute .
God is very faithful .
Many elderly people have died due to complications from the pandemic .
His songs are played on many radio stations across the country .
He wants to work with that hospital .
The leader was born thirty five years back .
She sang many educative songs .
Our family asked the police to investigate my father's mysterious death .
I enjoy listening to instrumental music .
She preached the Christian gospel to the people in his hometown .
He used to sing with a local church choir in their village .
Please isolate yourself if you are infected with the virus .
Prominent people in our country have succumbed to that deadly disease .
There were very many people at the leader's burial in Mubende district .
At the fashion show ,  people design clothes and showcase their new designs .
She owns the best fashion shop in our village .
An international organization organized fashion and design competitions among the youth in Uganda .
We have many mixed-race people in our village .
Barkcloth is a traditional wear for several tribes in Uganda .
Everyone wondered where he got the idea of designing clothes from barkcloth .
That jacket is made of thick leather .
He challenged his friends in the discussion .
My children put on raincoats whenever it rains .
My grandmother was buried in barkcloth .
The deceased had wounds on his back .
He made beautiful curtains from a fabric got from barkcloth .
Barkcloth is a traditional cloth made in Uganda
Barkcloth is used for making crafts and wall hangings .
To make a barkcloth ,  the inner bark of a fig tree is beaten until it is soft .
Barkcloth is mainly used during cultural gatherings .
She put on a traditional dress made from barkcloth during the beauty pageant .
In the past ,  the use of barkcloth was limited to the royal family .
Barkcloth fabric is made from the fig tree .
All schools remained closed after the lockdown .
That organization has three heritage sites in Uganda .
My father said he doesn't want to be buried in barkcloth when he dies .
Chiefs would routinely be buried in as many as one hundred fifty pieces of barkcloth .
We visited many historical places during the school tour .
He sells hats made from backcloth fabric .
There are many successful young farmers these days .
We presented gifts to the priest at his farewell party .
The author of that book wrote about the rise and fall of that kingdom .
God is good and that is His nature .
Ethiopia is the only uncolonized country in Sub-Saharan Africa .
Cotton is one of the major cash crops in Uganda .
Christian missionaries converted many people from paganism and Islam into Christianity .
The war in that country lasted for five years .
My grandfather was one of the National Resistance Movement soldiers .
She has a beautiful bottle .
The decoration on his wedding was blended with barkcloth fabrics .
That district is in the central region of Uganda .
We will harvest beans from our farm next month .
That is the largest town in our region .
The country has lost valuable tree species to deforestation .
The organization gave people capital to start up their own businesses .
A baby has a delicate skin .
I used banana leaves to prepare lunch .
That type of tree is very rare to find .
I boiled rice for thirty minutes .
It took us several hours to finish the task .
My favorite color is brown .
My mother deals in the sale of barkcloth products .
She was smart and elegant in a dress made from barkcloth fabric .
My sister is an international fashion designer .
That fashion show takes place in July annually .
My friend put on an expensive outfit .
That casual jacket costs thirty thousand Ugandan shillings .
My mother put on a linen dress last Sunday .
That local organization has sponsored women in the development of vocational skills .
He sells good quality shoes .
The conference will take place next week in London .
Those big trucks are used for garbage collection .
I am delighted that you arrived safely .
Barkcloth Fabric is exported to foreign countries .
His body resisted the medication .
That dress costs eighty thousand Ugandan shillings .
Materials from barkcloth are very expensive .
She bought a shirt for her husband at one hundred thousand Ugandan shillings .
Her designs are unique and rare to find .
The gift of life that God gave us is incomparable .
Do not cut down those trees .
All the outfits are unique .
She is used to living a luxurious life .
He was crowned the king in one thousand nine hundred ninety three .
The leader felt humbled by the local community's generosity and support .
I am not a citizen of that country ,  so I can't vote for you .
The situation will get better soon .
They were many music performances that night .
The awarding ceremony was very organized .
The committee prepared different categories of awards to be won that day .
She was the best artist in her category .
He is one of the most talented music producers in the country .
The best songs were nominated for the awards .
I wish I knew everything about music production .
We watched an online music performance yesterday .
Some people are ignorant about online music shows .
The singer has released a new album today .
Music events are full of entertainment .
Majority of the youths like her new song .
There are many comedians in the country .
Due to the prevailing pandemic ,  musicians have made very many losses .
There are many young talents in the music field .
He is one of the rising stars in the music industry .
The music fans enjoyed the live concert .
We have choir practice at four o'clock tomorrow .
That school is one of the best missionary founded schools in Uganda .
He was my mathematics teacher in primary school .
The bishop was the guest speaker at the ceremony .
Many people attended the funeral service .
The government closed all churches due to the pandemic .
The mathematics teacher asked him a very simple question .
My father served in that school for over twenty five years .
Physical exercises relax the mind .
Our school has a variety of sports activities .
I want to learn some cultural dances .
Our former headteacher served for a long period of time .
She converted many people to Christianity .
It is good to love whatever you do .
I know a few verses from the Bible .
Christians are called upon to offer support to the needy .
I like my brother's behavior .
He is in love with a born again woman .
It is good to help the needy whenever possible .
She always inquired about unknown faces around the office premises .
The matron used to walk around the dormitory at night to ensure that the girls don't get into danger .
I forgot my former headteacher's name .
The priest advised Christians to protect themselves from evil .
There were very many preachers in today's service .
The school has given out bursaries to needy children .
Our school management committee has contributed to the construction of a new football field .
The school nurtured many prominent people in the country .
Why do you think men mistreat their wives ?
The school did not perform well in this year's national examinations .
Never give up in life .
The wars led to the displacement of people .
I won't leave this place today .
This is one of the best performing schools in the country .
She is a former student of that school .
The former students of our school have formed an association .
The choir presented many songs at the concert .
The deceased has left a legacy .
His songs brought back the old memories .
We took many photos yesterday .
The priest led the prayers during the burial ceremony .
The choir leader for the function was a female .
Many religious leaders attended the function .
She is an experienced choir leader .
The mourners were so touched by the message from the deceased's best friend .
The former headteacher of that school attended the event .
His death occurred suddenly .
Leadership is a call from God .
I take my children for ice cream every weekend .
Some employers mistreat their workers .
There is an increase in gender based violence these days .
He has mentored many journalists in the country .
That hospital has qualified medical doctors .
Have you bought today's newspapers ?
This initiative will improve the standard of living for women in the country .
The village has lost a very important person .
The leader was buried with great honor .
Most of his words were educative .
The village has lost many valuable people .
Many people attended my uncle's burial .
Our country has many experienced journalists .
My sister encouraged me to study journalism .
My passport is expired ,  it needs to be renewed .
There is a high interest in adventure among the youths .
This project is sponsored by a certain media station .
The media facilitates the flow of information all over the country .
This project is sponsored by a foreign country .
The awarding ceremony took place last week .
Most journalists in our country are males .
The journalists had a nine-month training program to equip them with more skills .
Uganda is a member of the African Union .
In last year's media awards ,  the best news anchor was a female .
Some journalists have poor relationship skills .
Our company needs more skilled manpower to produce quality services .
That company has lost a great man .
She has worked with media companies for a long time .
There is only one radio station in our town .
He is one of the best news editors in the country .
This man has worked with several companies in various departments .
My sister works with a marketing company .
The journalists had a workshop yesterday .
We both served as security officers in that company for many years .
His kindness has made him a great man .
This is her first time traveling by aeroplane .
Most of the students in her class failed mathematics .
Some children are forced into child labour .
He showed how the organization had progressed over the last decade .
She feared that the pandemic might be a huge setback for the company .
Unemployment is one of the major causes of poverty .
Many people acquire loans to start businesses .
Parents should always make time for their children .
Poverty is one of the major causes of child labour .
She complained that she was being overworked .
Employers should ensure their places of work are safe for employees .
Everyone heard the announcement .
There are many healthy ways to deal with grief .
Many young parents have been strained by the pandemic .
She discouraged young girls from being involved in sex work .
He said parents participating in child labour would be arrested .
My daughter is excited about the reopening of schools .
All countries' economies have been affected by the pandemic .
The school fees were increased because of the pandemic .
The government advised the students to revise their books while at home .
The government said there will be more jobs available to graduates next year .
Many children have to walk to and from school .
The district leaders held a meeting to settle the land disputes .
More than ten people participated in the race .
She prayed that her husband would be the next president .
This is the most popular political party in the country .
She refused to participate in the election .
He is the leader of those rebels .
The participants' names were listed in alphabetical order .
They have been friends for many years now .
They are both teachers at my school .
He graduated from the university two years ago .
His opponent dropped out of the science competition the night before .
World War One led to the loss of so many innocent lives .
He was recognized as an outstanding performer .
That seat has been reserved for the First Lady .
The people in her village say she has contributed a lot to empower women .
He told the journalists that he had been falsely accused of murder .
He has always had good relationships with his employers .
This town has both murram and tarmac roads .
Good road networks promote the growth of agriculture .
This organization gives out university scholarships annually .
He is known as a city tycoon .
New companies create new employment opportunities .
He asked his former girlfriend to give him another chance .
She must work hard because she has strong opponents .
Everyone was working hard to prove their worth to the company .
He finished the marathon although he was in the last place .
We were given enough time to prepare for the examination .
They didn't have enough time to campaign .
He could not afford to pay for the class party .
The political party did not have a candidate to represent them in the local council one election .
School fees are a major issue for most parents .
She asked people to donate some money for her treatment .
No one showed up at her birthday party .
This organization donates clothes and food to those in need .
He joined this school last year .
He has done a lot of voluntary work in the community .
They voted for him because they thought he would win .
Those two are brothers .
He has been in office for a year .
He performed well in the Olympics .
Both my teammates won their competitions .
The list of the candidates and the votes they got was pinned up on the school notice board .
The army was deployed in Somalia .
All ambassadors to Uganda met with the president at the statehouse .
The speaker of parliament advised all leaders to be exemplary .
The flag was flown at half-mast in respect of the lives that were lost in yesterday's bombing .
The country mourned its late president .
The army general was killed in the war .
A monument was built in remembrance of the national heroes .
He came to the wedding with his wife and children .
He is one of the most important people in attendance .
The girl said she hopes to resume school next year .
The band leader addressed the audience at the end of the concert .
His death shocked all his friends .
The doctor said overweight people are at a high risk of hypertension .
The children were sad when their mother traveled abroad .
He said commitment is one of the most important attributes in a workplace .
That politician was diagnosed with stomach cancer .
Her father is a policeman .
He is dearly loved by his colleagues .
At his farewell party ,  the managing director said his departure is a great loss to the whole company .
The soldiers were thanked for their sacrifice .
Many countries came together to fight the rebels in North Africa .
The police was told to be on the lookout for human trafficking .
The bishop's burial ceremony will take place at his home tomorrow .
The final basketball match will take place on Saturday .
Everyone in my family loves this show .
The final act left everyone in shock .
That band has many fans .
There were many performances at the school concert .
The performance began with my favorite song .
Those are his brothers .
The secretary is in the office .
I am finding it hard to understand what you are explaining .
Have you tried talking to your father ?
We have completed the registration process of our company .
The organization is celebrating thirty years of existence .
He won a gold medal at the swimming competitions .
The dog has been barking since morning .
His parents migrated to Uganda when he was three years old .
My younger sister has been admitted to the school that she wanted .
Have you dug the holes where we shall plant the trees ?
The company is yet to hire a new director .
He runs ten kilometers every morning .
She has taken the bicycle to the mechanic .
Let's meet tomorrow at church .
How much did this watch cost you ?
That is the player who scored the first goal .
How many years have you spent at this company ?
This girl is always complaining about us to the teacher .
The police said that it has arrested twenty people in connection with yesterday's theft .
This town is so clean .
His house was swept away by the floods .
She plays football with her brothers .
He has built a house for his parents .
The rainy season has already started .
Some animals in the national parks are endangered .
We were given seven cows on our wedding day .
It is too dark ,  I can't see anything .
How many prisoners are in that cell ?
Do you know what you are talking about ?
The lady was deported back to America .
He will be taken to court tomorrow .
The city authorities have approved the plan for our proposed building .
Have you compiled the list that the teacher asked for ?
My laptop has stopped working .
There are a lot of people in prison .
Close that window before it gets dark .
Two people were charged with murdering the businessman from Kenya .
He is having a belly ache .
She was educating mothers on the importance of breastfeeding .
The president announced that some prisoners will be forgiven .
He has a lot of friends around town .
Do you know where the headquarters for the national television are found ?
He cooks food for the builders .
I was in the army for thirty years .
Is this man still alive ?
He had spent twenty years in prison .
The mayor of this city has been assassinated .
Which football team do you think will win this game ?
He was not allowed to move out of the country .
He has finally found himself a woman to marry .
I am very confident that we are going to win this basketball game .
We shall not be hiring new workers next year .
These men were fighting from the market .
Who placed these logs of wood on the kitchen door ?
The nurse is back .
What do you want from me ?
All the company workers have gone for lunch .
Unfortunately ,  his mother died in the accident .
That is a blessing .
He used to work as my assistant .
What are the symptoms of that disease ?
He is pretending to be concerned .
I dont know what you are after .
He was killed by a police officer .
Do you support the idea of buying a fully furnished house ?
Have you talked to the players ?
We should make one line .
She doesnt know how to swim .
Have you been to Germany ?
There is always a lot of noise on the football pitch .
We are going to miss you very much .
How did the meal taste ?
What is there tomorrow evening ?
Did you see any supporters at the pitch ?
Let us go and spray the tomatoes with pesticides .
Why did you leave this stool outside ?
Why do you spit everywhere ?
Your mother said that you shouldnt leave home at night .
Football fans have been forced to enjoy the games from their homes .
We shall support you on whatever decision that you make .
She said that she wanted to be alone .
Has the class started ?
I found her walking with her husband in the morning .
His father used to work with us .
The president wants to win the support of the people once again .
The company director has resigned .
We were asked to go back to court on Monday .
The car was parked in front of the gate .
This movie is interesting .
I want to buy a horse .
How many goats do you have ?
He has misused his office several times .
I didnt lay my bed in the morning .
There are many forms of corruption .
Close that door and sit down .
Do you have time for your family ?
He has joined the police force .
What happened to your arm ?
The presidential convoy stopped at this trading center .
Do you eat fish ?
For how long have you been with those shoes ?
His father deals in second hand items .
Did you ask the teacher about the school fees ?
He works at the railway station .
Someone has dropped their money .
What do you want from this bag ?
I want to dance with you .
We had rice and fish for supper .
What do you mean ?
The president is sick .
The bridge was swept away by the floods .
There are few health centers in Northern Uganda .
The office has been closed for three days .
Technology has changed very fast these days .
Why dont you report him to the police ?
He wants to become a journalist .
Which medicine do you usually take when you have cramps ?
He has was released from prison last evening .
Where did he study from ?
That is the man that I was telling you about .
She likes playing computer games .
Who is your group leader ?
Has your father returned from Kenya ?
What point are you trying to make ?
Under what names did you register your sim card ?
Her father bought for her a new book .
There might be a hole in the shoe .
The Members of Parliament visited the place where the child was killed from .
What is the biggest national park in Uganda ?
Remind me about the meeting later in the day .
The tourists failed to climb that hill .
The water prices have been hiked .
His uncle brews local beer .
What provisions of the law are you relying on ?
He said a lot of things .
She doesnt trust her husband .
The ballot papers were printed from Dubai .
Why should I trust you ?
Did you read the report from the office of the president ?
They welcomed me very well to their house .
The students have started doing their examinations .
Did you keep any food for me ?
I dont want to listen to your excuses .
Your wife needs financial support at this time .
This picture is so nice .
This cloth is of high quality .
The government has purchased five ambulances .
Where can one invest their money without fear of making losses ?
The leaders are having a meeting about the prices of electricity .
You should start saving some money for your future .
The tap is no longer leaks .
He has been supplying this company with paper for the last sixty years .
What requirements has your school asked for this time ?
Have you paid your water bills ?
We have been encouraged to buy local products .
There is a certain company that can do this job .
Where did you leave my mother ?
That man was arrested for stealing a chicken .
Dont lean on that glass table .
The maximum number of people allowed to move in a private car is three .
Prisoners equally have rights that must be respected .
She was given a new car as a birthday gift .
He is standing outside the car .
How do they handle patients at that hospital ?
The teachers are going to punish us for going late to class .
What are the rules governing this place ?
The company was training its workers on how to put out a fire .
We are expected to report to school in seven days .
He spent a lot of money on that bag .
We spent six days at the hotel .
She has a broken arm .
The car has stopped .
The prisoners are not allowed to interact with anyone .
We are monitoring the situation at the hospital .
What have you done since morning ?
They said that her conduct was bad .
Do you know how important it is to play with your children ?
I visited my sister yesterday .
There is someone knocking at the door .
One hundred prisoners escaped from prison last year .
You have a right to own property .
She will be representing the government at the conference .
The police arrested several people last night .
She said that she was tortured by the police .
When did you write that letter ?
His uncle is a minister .
He promised to come back early .
We shall pay your money .
The police can arrest you at any time .
Why do you threaten people ?
That man chased his wife from their house .
The government pays her school fees .
Thank you for helping us to push the car .
That is the woman who owns that shop .
He concentrates better in a quiet environment .
He missed out a lot during the meeting because he was dozing .
Some teachers do not even have smartphones to conduct online classes .
Online classes are a bit more convenient than physical classes .
Leaders have a right to exercise their authority where necessary .
The official date for reopening schools has not yet been communicated .
While at school ,  students get a chance to interact with each other .
What tools are required to create an online class ?
Ripe fruits are sweet .
How has the pandemic affected the education system in Uganda ?
What skills were required for the job ?
Some schools do not have enough resources to start online classes .
We need to adapt to the technological changes in the world today .
The author of the book said that it was based on a true story .
Some parents are worried about the future of their children .
Some people believe that learning never ends .
Parents should provide proper guidance to their children while growing up .
How many guests were invited to attend the party ?
Some parents fear to counsel their children .
The public needs to be sensitized about the benefits of family planning .
What is the reason behind keeping social distance during this pandemic ?
The drunkard man does not care about his children .
As a parent ,  what is the benefit of creating time for your children ?
The president warned police officials against torturing prisoners .
Some television programs are not suitable for children .
What are some of the activities that can help the body keep fit ?
I back up all my phone contacts on my google account .
What are some of the challenges being faced by children during this pandemic ?
The children read storybooks in their free time .
Some children have developed bad behaviors as a result of idleness .
I did not have any internet bundles to be online .
Our school has both the primary and secondary sections .
Kneeling down to pray is part of her daily routine .
It is very hard to get things for free these days .
The Ministry of Education introduced a new curriculum for secondary school learners in two thousand twenty .
At least every homestead in Uganda has a radio .
Several schools have tried to adopt the online form of learning .
Some students are planning not to go back to school .
Government procures medical equipment on behalf of its hospitals .
The former quarantine centers are no longer in place .
Doctors used artificial oxygen to treat some coronavirus patients .
The coronavirus health workers in the Eastern region are limited by several challenges ,  including lack of ambulance .
Transportation is difficult in mountainous areas .
He tried to make jokes so as to make her happy .
Different Members of Parliament donated ambulances to the community during the lockdown .
When was the last population census carried out in Uganda ?
Karamoja region is sparsely populated .
The third wave of coronavirus may arise in the country if precautionary measures are not taken .
Is it possible to completely eradicate coronavirus in the world ?
Delayed salaries demotivate workers .
The cross-border restrictions were uplifted by the president in his last press conference .
More health facilities need to be constructed in the country .
Health workers have worked hard to save people's lives during the pandemic .
He has no permanent address .
In some hospitals ,  beds were not enough to accommodate the number of coronavirus patients .
He hired a professional photographer to take his wedding pictures .
What is the purpose of quarantining non coronavirus patients ?
The cost of medication cause people to fear going to the hospital when they are ill .
Her grandmother is mentally ill .
The most common symptoms of coronavirus are similar to those of influenza .
How much funds were allocated to the health sector this financial year ?
The suspects were arrested without any evidence .
Patients with coronavirus were urgently attended to in the hospitals .
Medical officers highly discourage self-medication .
Previously ,  schools were used as quarantine centers .
Communities are aware of the prevalence of coronavirus disease in the country .
He called his wife and informed her that he will be coming home late .
In most cases ,  communication strengthens relationships .
The job requires her to move from one place to another .
I told him to put his trust in God .
Muslims celebrate two Eids in a year .
God has the best plan for my life .
We ate supper at six o'clock in the evening .
Living things can die .
The news about the president's illness was fake news .
Let me charge my phone since it has a low battery .
Some television stations have closed their operation in Uganda .
It is not illegal for a civilian to own a gun in Uganda .
He rides a rare motorcycle brand .
The police spokesperson urged the public to respect the presidential directives .
As she panicked the plate slid from her hands and fell down .
He parked the car beside the road because he was not feeling well .
The police report on the current murders is unsatisfactory .
What are the benefits of carrying out criminal investigations ?
There is an increase in the number of murder cases in the country .
What are the structures of government ?
Why do children go to school ?
The old man feels lonely ever since his wife died .
Her family is the richest in the village .
Life is what you make it to be .
Most of the shelves in her shop were empty .
Our last born at home is fifteen years old .
It is very painful to lose a loved one .
The religion of Islam allows men to marry more than one wife .
We need to let go of the past in order to move on .
Death is a mystery ,  how true is this statement ?
Is it true that the police sometimes arrest the wrong suspects ?
Arresting criminals has not put an end to crime in society .
He killed himself because he had lost all hope .
What are some of the challenges faced by the Uganda police ?
There are ongoing manslaughters in the Southwestern part of Kampala .
Who is behind the assassination of government officials in Uganda ?
Killing others is a sin before God .
When we are young ,  we are curious about so many things .
Why are people so heartless in this world ?
The deceased was my friend's father .
Security officials are usually armed while executing most of their duties .
The government is helping to restore peace in the Democratic Republic of Congo .
Why is it necessary to carry out investigations ?
The jerrycan was leaking .
She did not give a speech at her daughter's wedding ceremony .
Naturally ,  people are not the same .
Some electric poles fell as a result of the heavy rain .
His car consumes petrol fuel .
He decided to end his relationship with her .
A fingerprint can be used instead of a signature .
There were five interviewers on the panel .
When does the parliament sit ?
God protects us day and night .
I last contacted him yesterday evening .
The police killed some of the suspected assassins .
The police arrived late at the crime scene .
The Member of Parliament for our constituency changed his political party .
His property was taken because he failed to clear the loan balance .
Everyone is entitled to their own opinion .
His brother is better than him at dancing .
The ruling party has the most Members of Parliament .
The presidential elections took place on the fourteenth of January two thousand twenty one .
People go to courts of law with the hope of obtaining justice .
Do not kill others because everyone's life matters .
Why has the public lost trust in the police ?
Who is behind the assassinations in the country ?
He did not have enough evidence to win the case .
What is required in an investigation ?
What should be done to restore peace and security in some parts of the country ?
He could not move without support .
In Uganda ,  a suspect is innocent until proven guilty by the courts of law .
She refused to pick my phone calls .
He switched his phone off before the meeting .
Some children do not know how their fathers look like .
How has coronavirus affected the agricultural activities in Uganda ?
Some farmers export their farm produce to countries like Kenya .
Animal waste can be used as manure in the garden .
What were some of the restrictions set by the government to reduce the spread of the pandemic ?
Pesticides help us control the spread of pests in the garden .
What is the purpose of farmers' cooperatives ?
How long do bean seeds take to grow ?
The government gave out seeds to farmers .
What tools are required for planting crops ?
Farmers have profited from commercial farming .
The food prices were lower during the lockdown .
The government came up with programs promoting agriculture in Uganda .
What kind of inputs do farmers need ?
What could have been some of the benefits of the lockdown ?
Food was plenty and cheap during the lockdown .
People are not pleased with the lockdown .
What should be done about the food surplus ?
Uganda exports some of its food to countries like South Sudan .
We can control pests in the garden by using pesticides .
Caterpillars attack crops like tomatoes and leafy vegetables .
What are some of the post-harvest handling activities for maize ?
After harvesting coffee ,  it is put in the sun to dry .
Poultry business can be carried out on a small piece of land .
How often are domestic birds vaccinated ?
Every manufactured product has an expiry date .
Motorcycles and trucks were allowed to move during the lockdown .
Market vendors and news anchors were allowed to work during the lockdown
District border restrictions were imposed during the second coronavirus wave .
Of what benefit are agrochemical products to a farmer ?
Most Ugandans rely on public transport for movement .
During the lockdown ,  boda-bodas were only allowed to transport cargo .
Some farmers are dissatisfied with the quality of seeds distributed by the government .
Planting quality seeds boosts farm yields .
We used to eat beans every day at school .
What is the average household income in Uganda ?
Some people fear borrowing loans from the bank .
Uganda's economy is comprised of both the public and private sectors .
What are the conditions of borrowing money from a bank ?
He needs capital to start a business .
What is the Gross Domestic Product of Uganda ?
She is a professional accountant .
Every financial year ,  a certain amount of money is allocated to the repayment of national debts .
Businessmen want to venture into profitable businesses .
The banking sector gets profits from loan interests and bank charges .
How can businesses attain financial growth amidst the pandemic ?
What is required in opening up a bank account ?
He got the loan at ten percent interest .
What is the role of the financial sector ?
What is the current population estimate of Uganda ?
What should one do if he loses his National Identity Card ?
Which companies are currently selling shares in Uganda ?
There are different ways for one to invest his money .
Agricultural products have a ready market in Uganda .
What causes foodborne infections ?
With the current technology ,  you can now order food online .
The cost of living in urban areas is high .
Some of the goods sold in the market are highly perishable .
Food in decent restaurants is a bit expensive .
He decorated the place with balloons .
You can eat food either at a restaurant ,  hotel or at home .
Wash the fruits before eating them ,
Some markets are very congested and dirty .
Do not eat leftover food because it might be contaminated .
Bacteria ,  germs ,  viruses and parasites cause foodborne diseases .
What are some of the waterborne diseases ?
Market vendors were required to sleep in markets during the lockdown .
I wash my vegetable salads with warm water .
It was concluded that the recent general elections were free and fair .
Politicians have to campaign in order to win an election .
Parliamentarians voted for the new speaker of parliament .
Uganda's presidential term is five years .
How can we achieve political stability in the country ?
I doubt she will survive this illness .
She visited the British embassy for a visa interview .
Uganda is a democratic country .
Eleven people contested for presidency in the recently concluded elections .
The army and police were deployed to make sure that the elections are peaceful .
She found favor before her boss .
The president is also the chairman of the ruling party .
How can the government stop political violence ?
Zanzibar is an island in Tanzania .
Government plans to vaccinate all teachers and students before reopening schools .
Standard Operating Procedures have helped in controlling the spread of coronavirus .
The coronavirus cases have reduced worldwide .
People from the Northern part of Uganda are good athletes .
Two Ugandans won gold medals in the recently concluded Olympics .
Your achievements can make you stand out from the rest .
Most athletes are thin .
The president gave out new cars for all the Ugandan Olympic gold medalists .
What is the current worth of gold ?
The gold medalists were more than the silver medalists .
How old is your husband ?
Why are the Olympic games held ?
Old people cannot actively participate in sports games .
This year's Olympic games were held in Japan .
Some athletes cannot afford to run marathons .
To some people ,  their talent is their source of income .
He participated in the five thousand meter race .
What is the importance of fasting ?
Fat people can hardly win a race .
I used to actively participate in sports activities while in school .
How long is the journey from Kampala to Hoima district ?
Who is the greatest athlete ever ?
Some athletes are good at running long distances .
At the age of thirty ,  he had acquired a lot of wealth .
The Olympic gold medalists were recognized worldwide .
Which football team do you support ?
He is one of the fastest runners I know of .
The best three in the race were awarded medals .
He was the third in the four hundred meter race .
Which country will host the Olympics next time ?
Running is a good exercise for the body .
He wanted to prove to everyone that he is rich .
She finished the race within forty seconds .
The Olympic games are held after a period of four years .
He showed me his brand new car .
Her boss is an Indian .
Winners never give up .
What are the steps to success ?
She did everything in order to win her parents' trust .
It takes hard work and commitment to become a World Champion .
Some of the runners did not complete the marathon .
How many countries are under the commonwealth ?
She was very happy to receive a bronze medal .
Which country organizes the commonwealth games ?
The incomplete building collapsed and killed a number of people .
The second best runner was awarded a silver medal .
What are the rules to playing the high jump game ?
High jump is a good game for tall people .
After two years of hard work ,  he became rich .
Countries sent representatives to play in the different Olympic games .
Uganda is one of the commonwealth countries .
She joined high school at eighteen years of age .
What does it take to become a world champion ?
He felt bad for not winning the race .
He got a scholarship to study abroad .
It is very good to make wise decisions in life .
A few Ugandans represented the country in the recently concluded Olympic Games .
What is the least academic qualification a Member of Parliament should have ?
Two Ugandans won in the different Olympic races .
The fire kept burning after trying to extinguish it .
Each color of the traffic lights represents something .
Which countries are qualified to host Olympic games ?
Political candidates followed the Electoral Commission guidelines during their campaigns .
Politicians campaigned via radios ,  televisions and other media platforms .
For the first time ,  the country carried out scientific campaigns because of the pandemic .
The recently concluded elections were successfully concluded .
Do you know how to read a map ?
The chairman of the electoral commission announced the winner of the presidential elections .
With consistent revision ,  she managed to pass with good grades .
What criteria was followed by the electoral commission while nominating political candidates ?
How many Members of Parliament are in the eleventh parliament ?
What is the local government comprised of ?
The headquarters of the electoral commission are located in Kampala .
Public rallies were banned during last year's campaigns .
There was a suggestion to postpone the two thousand twenty one general elections .
What is the role of Members of parliament ?
She is one of the prominent human rights activists .
Why are most gates made out of metal ?
My friend died in a car accident .
Some ministers were not appointed this presidential term .
Ten people died in a car accident .
The police warned the public against mob justice .
Young girls should avoid early pregnancies .
Some television shows are educative .
Youths actively participated in the two thousand twenty one general elections .
She received an award for being the best performer .
There are several international students at the university .
The head offices of the organization are located on the outskirts of Kampala .
Different people have come up to fight against racism .
We sent our condolences to the family of the deceased .
As one of the coronavirus restrictions ,  only twenty people are allowed to attend burials .
What was the cause of the riot ?
Some young children have got pregnant during this pandemic .
How can we stop domestic violence in homes ?
You need to have priorities in life .
What causes gender-based violence ?
Parents are encouraged to make proper planning for their children .
What is the cost of holding a press conference ?
Some Non-Government Organizations provide care for children with disabilities .
At least most people can afford a smartphone these days .
How can countries prepare themselves for future pandemics ?
Every tribe in Uganda has its own language .
His elbow twisted when he fell from the building .
He bought his motorcycle on credit .
The spokesperson of the police warned people against violating the curfew time .
What happens to the people that are kidnapped ?
Her father is a police officer .
Careless road users cause accidents on the road .
What are some of the challenges faced by traffic officers ?
At what time is the curfew ?
Some people are arrested for crimes they did not commit .
Police arrested people for defying the president's directives .
The president announced that churches are still on lockdown for the next sixty days .
Under what conditions can the police arrest someone ?
Religious leaders conduct their prayers via media platforms .
Most of the police stations are very small to accommodate a big number of criminals .
Praying is the way of communicating with God .
He has a very big congregation .
The thieves fled on hearing the police sirens .
Lake Albert is the seventh largest lake in Africa .
During the second wave of coronavirus ,  Uganda suffered a shortage of oxygen in hospitals .
Fishing is the basic economic activity on Lake Victoria .
Religious leaders condemned the police shootings that took place in November two thousand twenty .
She got married at the age of twenty three years .
We suspect that her husband killed her .
Police forces should be trained on how to carry out investigations .
During the riot ,  a stray bullet hit a child in the head .
At the age of fifteen years ,  she was a victim of rape .
Government hospitals offer medical services at a fair cost .
It is said that money is the source of all evil .
During my internship ,  I offered voluntary services to the company .
The general public has positively responded to wearing masks during this season .
She enrolled for a bachelor's course in law at the university
What happens to the person who breaches a contract ?
In some cultures ,  people wear black clothes at the burial ceremony .
Some people are not trustworthy .
The government compensated some people in places where new roads are to be constructed .
The government has sensitized the public on coronavirus through advertisements .
The president has privately given money to some individuals .
She was wearing a yellow shirt with a pair of blue jeans .
He wasted a lot of time during his youthful age .
Human rights ought to be respected .
What causes domestic violence in homes ?
It seems the police is reluctant in making certain investigations .
What is the best way to solve domestic violence cases ?
Over thirty seven people were victims of the shooting .
Is it possible to completely end land wrangles in Uganda ?
Business people are complaining about the new taxes imposed on them .
Where is your place of residence ?
She had bruises on her face .
He is not on good terms with his neighbors .
The deceased's body was thrown into the lake .
He invested his money in constructing rentals .
We live in Rubaga sub-county .
She hid under the bed .
Couples with misunderstandings need to visit a marriage counselor .
During the lockdown ,  most families could afford only one meal a day .
Her young brother is in senior one .
Nobody knows his home address .
Some crimes are due to alcohol and drugs .
What is the purpose of carrying out investigations ?
What punishment is given to people who are non-tax compliant ?
High production costs could lead to a rise in the price of the products .
What are the qualities of a good salesman ?
There are a number of beverage companies in Uganda .
What is the name of your company ?
Your mother will blame you for being careless .
You have to provide evidence of that crime .
The football team organized a small party to celebrate their victory .
The thieves' faces could not be recognized because they were wearing face masks .
The children were eager to visit their grandparents in the village .
You delayed applying for that job .
Many football games were postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic .
Firefighters are battling to save people's properties in the building .
The politician's house is surrounded by the army .
There is no other way to solve this problem .
Eight people are contesting for the office of president .
The property of the deceased will be distributed equally amongst his children .
She was determined to sell all her property and leave the village .
All students will go home for a two weeks holiday .
He saves part of his salary every month .
My friend talked to the investors about his business idea .
The winning team scored only one goal .
I warned him not to take alcohol to school .
The hotel manager allowed me to share this room with you .
You will be punished for coming late to school .
The bullet hit him in the chest .
That football team has not scored any goal during this season .
The striker was in a good position to score a goal but he failed .
The team scored a goal two minutes before the break .
She used a big stick to beat the snake .
Who is supposed to sweep the classroom today ?
She has coached the netball team for several years .
The whole family decided to break down the house and reconstruct it again .
I cannot leave this house without my children .
I would like to see your graduation pictures .
Most people in the world are working hard to have a better future .
The football player was given two yellow cards in one game .
The football team scored a goal in the seventy ninth minute of the game .
The visitors left without eating anything .
The referee canceled their goal .
What was your father's reaction when you told him that you are getting married ?
He became an orphan at the age of five .
The football team has missed all its chances to score a goal .
The company advertised so many jobs in April this year .
Do you have food to eat today ?
I managed to pay my bank loan during the lockdown .
I have never seen that family celebrate their children's birthdays .
The thief grabbed my handbag and ran .
He is celebrating ten years of priesthood .
I need to renew my contract before it expires .
She started working in this company as a cleaner .
I have an interest in learning new languages .
My uncle was fired from his previous job .
I cannot betray my country .
Students need to start applying for internship before the semester ends .
The president may extend the lockdown for more three weeks .
I do not want any member of my family to be involved in politics .
Entebbe International Airport is the major international airport in Uganda .
He sold to me expired bread .
We should write a letter to thank our supporters .
I have not achieved my goals for the year because of the pandemic .
Entebbe International Airport is undergoing renovation .
He bought a plot of land for his mother .
My nephew is in senior one .
It is very expensive to buy land in town .
He bought more land to expand his farming activities .
He is the director of the civil aviation authority .
The government of Uganda sensitized the public about the outbreak of Polio .
The National Water and Sewerage corporation company distributes water to people .
The Uganda Electricity Board is responsible for power generation in Uganda .
He is a lawyer .
He scored the winning goal in the game .
They won the league title with ninety points .
He is the French national football team coach .
It is the most successful football team in Germany .
Uganda failed to qualify for next year's African cup of Nations .
The government bought new ambulances .
He asked for the price of a new bicycle .
He was thrown out of his hotel room after failing to pay .
My cousin brother was asked to repeat the class .
Travelers had to pay for their hotel rooms where they were quarantined .
His father owns apartments in the city .
He earns four hundred thousand every month ,
She was the first female speaker of parliament .
He is the former minister of foreign affairs .
The Ministry of Health received donations from several organizations in the fight against coronavirus .
He sends money to his parents every month .
Passengers were requested to present a coronavirus test results card before traveling .
All people entering Uganda have to be quarantined .
We are all required to go for medical checkups before returning to school .
He failed to get the fees to register for his Primary Leaving Examinations .
The company asked us to take letters from our village chairpersons .
The government promised to give food to people in Kampala and Wakiso districts .
He works as a security guard at the airport .
I booked our flight tickets from Uganda to Nairobi .
The government plans to bring back Ugandans who are stranded in other countries .
He lost his parliamentary seat .
Most schools punish students for speaking vernacular while at school .
His mother was Uganda's ambassador to Kenya .
Registration for first-year students begins on the seventh of May this year .
Many countries have closed their border points so as to minimize the spread of coronavirus .
The tickets for today's football match are very expensive .
Most employees are ignorant about the employment laws in Uganda .
The public demand government to release the people who were arrested during the campaigns .
It was an honor to host the bishop at our home .
She wears high heels while in the newsroom .
Who is the Lord Mayor of Kampala city ?
He did not hide his feelings towards her .
Her job application was rejected .
For the first time ,  the president appointed a female prime minister .
Expired goods are not good for consumption .
The Lord Mayor appoints a deputy of his choice .
What is the role of the Deputy Lord Mayor ?
She has a small flower garden .
He is a former student of Makerere University .
Who is the minister of finance ?
My friend got her work appointment letter today .
She handed in her resignation letter two months ago .
Makerere University postponed its graduation ceremony because of the pandemic .
What is the retirement age for government workers ?
Local councilors are elected by the people .
How old is the deputy Lord Mayor ?
The nursery school I attended closed a long time ago .
She never continued with school after her senior four .
Police officers are important people in our society today .
Government scholarships have given students an opportunity to study at the university .
He wants to enrol for a postgraduate degree .
She attained her bachelor's degree from Makerere University .
University guild presidents are elected every academic year .
He has written a number of books .
What are the conditions of publishing a book in Uganda ?
What is the number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Uganda ?
How many people recovered from coronavirus in Uganda ?
There were more severe cases in the second wave of coronavirus in Uganda .
Some masks are made out of clothes .
Campaigns are expensive to fund .
You cannot enter certain places without wearing a mask .
Security cameras on the road have assisted police in investigations .
As a result of the pandemic ,  most schools in Uganda have adopted electronic learning .
The high cost of the internet in Uganda is a hindrance to online learning .
Education is very important in the modern day world .
In the past ,  women were not allowed to go to school .
The coronavirus updates were published in today's newspapers .
The minister of Education made a report about the general performance of candidates .
The prevalence of coronavirus has increased the income inequality gap among Ugandans .
What has hindered development in some parts of the country ?
The president gave updates on the status of coronavirus during his speech .
Technology has encouraged continuity of learning during this pandemic season .
Radios and televisions are a means of communication .
Some learners do not have learning aids to support them through the lockdown .
Was it necessary to close schools back in March two thousand twenty ?
What are some of the materials required for electronic learning ?
Radio and television stations have aided learning during this pandemic season .
In February two thousand twenty one ,  schools were reopened for semi candidates .
What are the functions of the high court in Uganda ?
Most government projects are for the benefit of the public .
Who is the newly appointed Attorney General of Uganda ?
What were the objectives of the Rural Electrification project in Uganda ?
Her work license was officially canceled .
The main purpose of the judiciary is to administer justice to all people in Uganda .
What is the role of a minister in government ?
Companies like to hire competent people with expertise in their field of study .
There is a body that regulates and controls engineering practices in Uganda .
Under what conditions may an employee be laid off from work ?
Scientists have contributed to the World's technological advancement .
He installed various applications on his phone .
What is the role of the Archbishop of Uganda ?
He wanted to know more about salvation .
What does it take to get to the level of an Archbishop ?
Archbishops retire at the age of sixty five years .
There are both Catholic and Anglican Archbishops .
How many Catholic dioceses are in Uganda ?
Is a high body temperature a sign of fever ?
Can stomach ulcers be treated ?
He died of an unknown illness .
Lawyers offer legal advice to their clients .
What laws are in place to fight against sexual harassment ?
I think women should be sensitized on ways they can protect themselves against sexual abuse .
Some employers exploitatively do not pay their employees wages and salaries .
There are very many victims of rape in Uganda .
Victims of domestic violence need to be offered free counseling services .
It is a common trend for criminals to deny offenses charged on them .
Communities need to be sensitized about the prevailing human rights .
She wrote a letter to her longtime friend .
Of what benefit is the human rights committee in the country ?
She plans to attend today's meeting .
He was sanctioned with a letter inviting him to court .
Some people do not know how to write official letters .
The number of coronavirus infections has globally declined .
What countries share a border with Uganda ?
There are quite a number of Ugandans living and working in South Africa
How many people have died of coronavirus in the world ?
Coronavirus infections were most common in urban areas .
What are the signs of mental stress ?
Coronavirus was common among older people than the youth .
Some Ugandan soldiers were taken to Somalia to fight against the rebels .
Earlier people were not allowed to attend the burial of a coronavirus victim .
Photographs remind us of different memories .
What protective gears must doctors wear before working on a coronavirus patient ?
Some hospitals need to be renovated because they are very old .
He holds the highest rank in the army .
Some soldiers retired from the army this year .
What are some of the challenges faced by the health sector in Uganda ?
Several people are arrested whenever there is a strike .
Couples are encouraged to use family planning methods as a way of controlling population growth .
Uganda medical interns threatened to strike over underpayments .
Umbrellas are useful on a rainy day .
New plant species have been introduced on market .
What are some of the challenges facing the health sector of Uganda ?
Some Non-Government Organizations have been suspended in Uganda .
Security forces need to execute their duties with due diligence .
How has curfew helped in controlling the spread of coronavirus ?
Isolate yourself in case you have any symptoms of coronavirus .
The Ministry of Health has tried to control the spread of coronavirus in Uganda .
Some qualified health workers in Uganda do not have jobs .
I am certain doctors learned a lot during this pandemic .
Countries have discovered various vaccines that can be used to fight against coronavirus .
Why was artificial oxygen used in treating coronavirus ?
Medical surgeries are carried out from the operating theater .
Coronavirus can cause lung complications .
Government authorities should address the needs of the general public .
Uganda received financial aid to assist her in fighting against coronavirus .
All government authorities and organizations have a permanent secretary .
What would you do if someone makes false accusations against you ?
Truck drivers were some of the first coronavirus victims in Uganda .
The coronavirus vaccine is given on the left arm .
God is so merciful .
President promised to increase the salaries of medical doctors .
His work contract is for four years .
The government wants to have all Ugandans vaccinated .
Most employees' salaries were reduced because of the pandemic .
A bigger percentage of Ugandans are Christians .
The government called for the first lockdown in March two thousand twenty .
How was your first experience at work ?
Who is in charge of appointing Archbishops ?
Very many things have changed as a result of the pandemic .
Some people believe that coronavirus is here to stay .
It is good to have a positive mindset .
What criteria is followed when appointing new Archbishops of Uganda ?
I have also found working with media houses useful ,  especially newspapers .
The closure of churches gave some people time to reflect on their spiritual lives .
What are the benefits of going to church ?
Pastors ,  priests and bishops have used media platforms to preach the gospel .
I read my Bible every day .
Projects have a life span .
What are some of the challenges faced by journalists in Uganda ?
What is the main purpose of preaching the gospel ?
There are people that have converted from witchcraft to Christianity .
Your mindset can influence your character .
How has the pandemic affected the churches ?
On Sundays ,  I watch ongoing television programs .
We believe that churches shall be reopened after the sixty days .
People give tithe and offerings when they go to church .
We need to put idle resources to active usage .
No one knows when the pandemic will completely end .
Most of our problems are temporal .
God is so loving and forgiving .
I cannot speak bad things about myself .
We learned through the hardships of life .
God is the creator of the universe .
She came from a humble background .
Why were airports closed during the pandemic ?
Hopefully ,  things will finally get better .
When we repent God forgives our sins .
How many books are in the Bible ?
God hears our prayers and sees all that we do .
The scriptures talk a lot about the nature of God .
Some people do not have a source of income .
Through his preaching ,  the priest advised believers to trust God .
Projects like poultry and piggery are a source of income to many .
Winners exercise certain traits that cause them to win .
Religious leaders were requested to keep out of politics .
Who is a vulnerable person ?
The government gave posho and beans to people during the first lockdown in two thousand twenty .
The police moved around in town centers encouraging people to wear masks .
The government of Uganda has done its best to control the spread of coronavirus in the country .
The Ministry of Health anticipates that there might be a third wave of coronavirus .
The lockdown was lifted in phases .
The government promised to distribute masks .
The doctor said that the woman is perfectly healthy .
The public donated food and money to the government during the first lockdown .
Some people did not have anything to eat during the lockdown .
Individuals came out to distribute food to the needy in society .
I did not see him at the burial .
We believe everything is possible before God .
There are very many needy people in society .
People have made international friends via social media .
Christians preach about the good news of Jesus Christ .
Her mother is in the church choir .
Some fathers do not want to take part in the upbringing of their children .
Some churches do not have permanent structures .
He will represent the university in the competitions .
We believe that people from a royal family are rich .
The church of Uganda has its own assets .
Village leaders should know their residents .
The court ruling is final .
There are various land cases in the courts of law .
Judges make their ruling based on the evidence provided .
The Catholic Archbishop died this year .
What are the different ways of acquiring land in Uganda ?
Most lawyers usually end up joining politics .
On purchase of certain products ,  clients are given a warranty .
He is a successful businessman .
One of the churches was demolished as a result of land wrangles .
Lawyers act on behalf of the client while in courts of law .
How can one tell the validity of something ?
He is a person of high status in society .
The judge is expected to make biased free decisions .
Court helps solve society disputes .
Incompetence is evaluated according to performance .
How does one become a judge ?
The courts of law provide justice to the public .
There are no permanent structures on his piece of land .
His phone has a one-year warranty .
Both the Catholic and Anglican churches have dioceses in Uganda .
The old man enjoyed the fruits of his hard work .
According to the judge ,  his evidence was insufficient .
The investigations were very costly .
The registered candidates sat for their national examinations .
What role is played by the Anti-Corruption Unit in Uganda ?
The stealing of newly born babies from hospitals is on the rise these days .
Pastors lead believers of the born-again faith .
She does not know her real parents .
There were very many mourners at the burial .
Security in hospitals should be tightened .
The increasing number of murder cases need to be investigated .
How can we stop corruption in the county ?
She took photographs of her baby with the phone .
Through investigations ,  the truth eventually comes out .
The police case was closed .
Abortion is illegal in Uganda .
Having high expectations can lead to disappointments .
Who heads the Uganda Police ?
The housemaid was caught on camera torturing her boss' child .
I have been wondering where to go for my vacation .
Her baby went missing in the hospital .
He was summoned by the anti-corruption unit for further investigations .
The police interrogated the criminal but did not get any relevant information .
The spokesperson of police addressed the press yesterday evening .
He has been a practicing doctor for over twenty years now .
He took his children for a Deoxyribonucleic Acid test .
What kind of offenses are handled by the court ?
Failure to comply with a court order is an offense .
The police spokesperson updates the public on certain current security issues .
I will visit the dentist next week .
Some drivers for public vehicles do not have driving permits .
The health facilities are open twenty four hours .
When can re-election take place in Uganda ?
Very many youths in Uganda believed in the ideology of people power .
Every political candidate had a symbol on the ballot paper .
How long is the president's term in the United States ?
Facebook has enforced its rules barring content promoting harm .
What is the purpose of holding elections ?
How many votes did he get in the East African parliament elections ?
Uganda is a member of the United Nations .
He got the majority votes but he was not announced as the winner .
He was appointed manager replacing her when she was on leave .
She seats on the school board of directors .
Uganda imports most of its products from Kenya .
The new employees in the company introduced themselves to the old team .
Why did Britain break away from the European Union ?
He dismantled the phone in order to repair it .
Good roads contribute to economic development .
The museum is one of Uganda's tourist sites .
Uganda is endowed with historical monuments like the independence monuments .
What do you know about Uganda's history ?
Why were monuments built in the past ?
Uganda was colonized by Britain .
Our school is under renovation .
The Queen of England came to Uganda in two thousand seven to attend the commonwealth .
Some buildings that were built without a plan in Kampala are being demolished .
What causes traffic jam in the downtown of Kampala city ?
The clock tower is not there anymore .
Some places in Kampala city flood when it rains heavily .
Some of the causes of fire outbreaks still remain unknown in Uganda .
What is the main function of the brain ?
She shared her story on how she recovered from coronavirus .
How many coronavirus vaccination centres are available in the country ?
The number of coronavirus cases has reduced in the country .
During the lockdown ,  priority was given to treatment of coronavirus patients .
Due to full capacity in the hospitals ,  coronavirus patients with mild symptoms were told to treat themselves from home .
New coronavirus centres were put in place to reduce the congestion in hospitals .
Coronavirus originated from China in two thousand nineteen .
When is a coronavirus patient taken to the intensive care unit ?
How many national referral hospitals are in Uganda ?
Do you think it is necessary for the government to prepare for the third wave of coronavirus ?
Some people died of hunger during the lockdown .
During the lockdown ,  most of the economic activities were at a standstill .
Poverty has increased among Ugandans as a result of the pandemic .
Business people have requested the government to reduce the additional taxes on imported products .
Washing hands with soap has generally improved people's hygiene .
Some projects are entirely funded by the government .
Are there tax holidays for companies operating in Uganda ?
The public has been sensitized about the benefits of washing hands with soap .
Rainwater is free .
People have to pay electricity and water bills .
Our neighbors are prayerful Christians .
Uganda is a God-fearing nation .
The cost of living in Kampala is high .
Cabinet ministers preside over the departments of government .
She called off tomorrow's meeting .
Everyone entering the country should be tested for coronavirus .
He has been admitted to a hospital for two months now .
What is the best way for the government to recover the economy ?
What is the role of the ministry of education and sports ?
I believe that Jesus Christ died and rose again .
Decision making is one of the qualities of a good leader .
Football players hold different positions during the match .
He sponsored his trip to Uganda .
What are some of the football clubs in Uganda ?
Sometimes people need a shoulder to lean on .
There is a telecommunication company closing its operations in Uganda next month .
What we do today might influence our future .
The different players in a match must work together in order to win the game .
Healthy competitions could lead to economic development .
Her former boss apologized for the way he had treated her .
Countries are still trying to recover from the effects of coronavirus .
What is the difference between a skill and a talent ?
The year will be ending in the next three months .
She wants to build her accounting career .
Which football team won the world cup ?
Most sports activities require a lot of energy .
A spinal cord injury is very dangerous .
He is qualified to teach university students .
He had the highest score in the test .
Kids have limited exposure and knowledge on very many things .
Football teams do intensive training in order to win a match .
People are still active in sports betting because of their passion for football .
Players with minor injuries are first given first aid and then taken to the hospital .
Which teams were in the Champions League ?
He became a qualified doctor after pursuing a bachelor's degree in medicine .
What are the benefits of hiring workers on a contract ?
Some physical injuries can result into disability .
How much does a football coach earn ?
Some injuries can result into permanent damage .
Some politicians lost the elections .
Her mother is a very tough woman .
Babies start movement by crawling .
Unfortunately ,  no one was around to rescue her from the robbers .
What is the use of social media ?
Do not hang around people with bad behaviors .
Wildlife attracts tourists from all parts of the world .
Restrictions on travel hindered tourists from visiting new places .
The government has lost money in the tourism sector as a result of the pandemic .
How has Uganda benefited from being part of the East African Community ?
Uganda has several tourist centers .
What should government do to create jobs for the youth ?
The tourism sector has contributed to the economic development of the country .
The number of tourists in the country has reduced because of the pandemic .
What should be done to support the tourism sector in Uganda ?
Wild animals are the main attraction for tourists in Uganda .
Some wild animals are almost extinct .
Besides wildlife ,  what else attracts tourists into the country ?
Wild animals are kept safe in national parks and the zoo .
How much funds were allocated to the tourism sector in the national budget ?
What is the benefit of conserving wildlife ?
Some animals species are extinct from this world .
Why is wildlife protected ?
Poaching is one of the challenges faced by wildlife .
Rhinoceros are hunted and killed for their horns .
She revealed her secret to him .
More areas need to be gazetted purposely for wildlife .
Diseases will continue to exist among people .
Asthma and lung cancer are some of the respiratory diseases .
Are there any conditions to meet before going for a coronavirus test ?
People entering the country should be tested for coronavirus at the airport .
Eating foods rich in vitamins helps to boost immunity .
Coronavirus has affected some parts of Africa .
Medical supplies such as masks ,  gloves and others should be available in the hospitals .
Health workers have treated coronavirus cases .
Couples are encouraged to test for certain diseases before getting married .
Nations have resorted to vaccination as a means to fight the pandemic .
Health workers aim at saving people's lives in hospitals .
Uganda needs to improve its public health system .
What is the total number of coronavirus deaths in Africa ?
There are seven continents on planet earth .
Some countries in Africa have come up with their own coronavirus treatment .
Where are military weapons procured from ?
Armed groups are a threat to the government in power .
There are very many Democratic Republic Congolese who have come to Uganda as refugees .
Why do countries get involved in the politics of other countries ?
What is the purpose of opposition to the government ?
The United Nations has helped African countries in fighting against the pandemic .
We need to ask an expert before making a decision .
My sister applied for a teaching job at her former secondary school .
Successful applicants will receive a notification within the week .
My uncle has traveled all over the world .
The parcel was delivered two weeks back .
The patient was transferred to another hospital .
We should follow the country's rules and regulations .
The truck has just delivered the building materials to the site .
Firefighters are investigating the cause of the fire that burnt down the building .
He served as Uganda's chief justice for five years .
She erased all the messages that were on her phone .
Each committee member was given a different task to complete .
My contract will officially end on Saturday .
We have to deal with some unfinished business .
A building collapsed in Makindye town killing thirteen people .
She was appointed as the new deputy headteacher at our school .
I have finished my research assignment .
Our new boss wants us to work in teams of three .
This room has only one exit .
The Ugandan government has issued land titles to twenty three Mbale residents .
She was appointed acting president until the end of this presidential term .
He fell from a ladder and broke his arm .
The best way to keep your daughter safe is to supervise her .
She is the chief magistrate of Masaka High Court .
I will be the next manager upon the retirement of the current one .
She sold most of her property when she was relocating to the village .
The manager is expected to endorse these recommendations .
There is an Ebola outbreak in Eastern Uganda .
Pesticides are chemicals used to prevent pests from attacking crops .
My uncle planted maize on four acres of land .
The bookshop was destroyed by fire .
The disease is known to cause permanent brain damage .
The noise from the factory affected our work .
The government has just declared a state of emergency .
An insect has fallen into my eye .
His maize plantation was destroyed by pests .
I bought a spray to kill the weeds .
I haven't heard from your brother since January last year .
The government spent a lot of money on improving infrastructures in public universities .
Most people in Uganda do not have access to the internet .
You should consider renting a house near your workplace .
The journey from my home to my workplace is approximately two miles .
One of the biggest problems in the world today is food insecurity .
He donated food items to the teachers who have been affected by the closure of schools .
The village was declared a disaster area after the floods .
Droughts are a direct result of increasing global temperatures .
Despite being diagnosed with cancer ,  she remained resilient and fought until the very end .
The company needs more financial assistance from the government .
He will represent Uganda in the East African legislative assembly .
He predicted that he would lose the election .
He hired some people to help him harvest his maize .
Several parts of northern Uganda are usually dry .
Kidepo National park is found in northeastern Uganda .
I thought you would refund my transport .
He is one of the drummists in the church choir .
His supervisor told him to change his research topic .
She is the longest-serving teacher at the school .
The Queen of Britain inherited the throne from her father .
His parents promised to buy him a phone if he passed his exams .
She wore a unique fashionable dress .
Our science teacher was involved in an accident while on his way to school .
Many people say that I resemble my father .
My father and I love swimming .
That old man has been selling newspapers for a very long time .
Some schools could not meet the guidelines set by the ministry .
He works as a volunteer with the Red Cross .
The World Health Organization chairman visited Uganda .
The president of Uganda flagged off the athletes to the African athletics competitions .
The football games competition was organized by the member of parliament .
Sick people are advised to swallow their medicine after eating something .
The chairperson of the organizing committee thanked everyone who attended the party .
They missed their flight because their coronavirus test results hadn't yet been released .
The two boys standing at the class entrance are my brothers .
The Member of Parliament donated masks and sanitizers to the hospital .
He said that his father inspired him to join athletics .
The new stadium will be able to accommodate twenty thousand people .
Health officials closed many drug shops during the inspection exercise .
The first athlete to cross the finish line is the winner .
He talked to journalists after winning the race .
I need to replace my phone screen .
My mother started making masks during the first lockdown .
Many people watched the king's wedding on television .
The Ministry of Education released new guidelines that must be adhered to before the schools are reopened .
The documents I took to the bank were proven to be fake .
My parents want me to first get married traditionally before giving birth .
Most of the people went to the village before the lockdown .
Most of the rich people live in Kololo .
Part of the stolen money was recovered .
The prime minister visited the people affected by the floods .
The court ordered him to stop evicting people from the land .
The government will compensate people affected by the construction of the road .
The chief magistrate postponed the court hearing to next month .
The teacher confiscated his phone .
She heads the anti-corruption unit in State House .
The Uganda Olympic winners were recognized by the president .
What is the purpose of an affidavit ?
One can now apply for a passport online using the online application system .
Women usually take on their husbands' last names when they get married .
He published his book in two thousand eighteen .
The Uganda Gazette is open and accessible to the general public .
What is the purpose of signing documents ?
The land title is registered in my grandmother's name .
She contacted her lawyer for legal advice .
He advocates for a new Uganda .
I contacted him via email .
How much funds were allocated to the agricultural sector this financial year ?
Commercial farmers should adapt to modern ways of farming .
Agriculture is the major source of livelihood in Uganda .
Uganda exports its agricultural produce to countries like South Sudan .
She got a salary increment this year .
National statistics show that seventy percent of Ugandans practice agriculture .
The pandemic negatively affected international trade .
What is the purpose of irrigation ?
What are the benefits of using machines for farming ?
What happens at a coronation ceremony ?
One of the coronavirus health guidelines is to wear a mask while in public .
As a result of the pandemic ,  people have resorted to scientific weddings .
The general public must follow the coronavirus health guidelines set by the government .
What is the best way to fight against diseases in the community ?
Besides coronavirus ,  have there been any other pandemics before ?
What role is played by culture in society today ?
He is a third year university student .
She did not have enough money to buy food .
When is Father's Day celebrated ?
She gifted her husband a watch .
Parents need to spare time for their children during the school holidays .
What is your favorite dish ?
Her father had over fifty children from different mothers .
Uganda had one silver medalist in the Tokyo Olympics this year .
Some people are not talented at sports .
Her article was published in the school magazine .
Some people never want to go back to their families in the village .
Some people think that it is satanic to tattoo your body .
Most people strive to establish a legacy before they die .
She lives in an incomplete house .
There are different kinds of games one can play .
The western world has an influence on our culture today .
Our home team won the competitions .
Kids enjoy eating the cake icing .
It took him a lot of time to set up the equipments for videography .
Someone from a poor family can still be successful in life .
She was wearing golden jewelry .
The taste of wine was awesome .
Students in candidate classes go for a vacation after sitting for their national examinations .
The path was very narrow for the car to pass .
As a result of hunger ,  he was tempted to steal his friend's wallet .
She defended her religious beliefs .
Four years back he was a poor man .
He rarely argues with people .
We cleaned the house thoroughly yesterday .
He gave a speech in reference to the ongoing situation in the country .
Uganda has talented athletes .
She is afraid of staying alone in the house .
He excused himself from the meeting .
Attaining a degree from the university was a very big achievement for him and his family .
The second runner-up in the race was given a bronze medal .
Every culture has its own beliefs .
She looked so beautiful in her wedding gown .
He did not like her dress code .
The football team got a new coach .
She came with her baby to the party .
Shy people find it hard to look directly into people's eyes .
Running is a good exercise that helps our bodies to keep fit .
The boy is deaf .
It is not easy to make a world record .
He finished the race in less than a minute .
Her phone is in vibration mode .
Individuals donated money and food to the government during the lockdown .
It is assumed that some of the arrested murder suspects are innocent .
He failed to pay his rent because he does not have a job .
My parents have been married for thirty years now .
I missed out on the details of the story .
We have not heard any updates about coronavirus in a while .
One of the former prime ministers of Uganda died in two thousand nineteen .
How many participants were in the one hundred meter race ?
He is still greatly celebrated because of his achievements .
The most common sports game is football .
The old man's face is full of wrinkles .
This poem was written by him .
Which countries are allowed to participate in the Olympic games ?
Why are athletic winners awarded medals ?
Do athletes feed on a special diet ?
Regimes come and go .
What should the Ministry of Education and Sports do to promote athletics in Uganda ?
What inspires people to plant trees ?
What are some of the challenges affecting the economy of Uganda ?
A number of Asians are operating businesses in Uganda .
He is an international musician .
What is your greatest achievement in life ?
How many professional boxers are in Uganda ?
He has won lots of medals over the years .
The dance performance excited the audience .
A chess game is one of the popular games played all over the world .
When does the Africa Cup of Nations take place ?
I doubt if the team will make it to the finals .
What are the benefits of doing research ?
The media plays a very important role in society .
The football match will be shown live on television .
He rose up from his seat and left .
How does age affect the performance of an athlete ?
Some African countries did not send representatives to the Tokyo Olympics .
People that make world records are recognized worldwide .
Some roads were named after people .
He was promoted to the highest rank in the police .
He is the most popular politician .
She was hired to make an advert on behalf of the company .
Pupils who passed the primary seven Uganda National Examinations are eligible to join secondary school .
Some orphans are educated by friends and relatives of the deceased .
What qualifications does one need to join the police force ?
Is it possible that some people are not talented at all ?
The main referral hospital in Uganda is located in Kampala .
Her mother encouraged her to first finish school .
Employees of certain organizations must be in uniform while on duty .
When will the Commonwealth games be held ?
She wants to brighten the color of her teeth .
What is the purpose of a coach on a team ?
Everyone is good at something ,  you just have to discover where your potential lies .
What is the purpose of carrying out political campaigns ?
How big is the national stadium in Uganda ?
We managed to solve our family disputes .
What kind of treatment is given to someone beat by a poisonous snake ?
Everyone was silent when he was giving his speech .
Only twenty people were invited to the wedding ceremony .
Some people afford to smile even when they are in pain .
She said that he was not her boyfriend .
In every competition ,  we expect to have only one winner .
Some of the invited guests did not turn up at the function .
Jogging helps us cut down some fat in the body .
Through practice ,  people are able to sharpen their skills .
My mother is good at keeping secrets .
The school awarded a scholarship to the best student .
Why is it that some people sweat a lot during the hot season ?
In the past ,  our parents would use their hands to remove loose teeth .
The scouts and girl guides went camping .
Some parts of the body are stitched after medical surgery .
He concentrated on his studies and passed with good grades .
She remembers every detail about her childhood .
Majority of the people use their right hand to write
What does is it take to be a winner ?
In the race ,  everyone was supposed to run within their lane .
He was in the second position according to the academic report .
Only the best three in the race were awarded medals .
The police told her to describe the appearance of the lost child .
His dress code was very impressive .
Victory goes to the one who wins the battle .
She was the last in the race .
Do you know how to play rugby ?
What are the benefits of competition in business ?
She kept receiving threats from her husband after the divorce .
He withdrew some money from his bank account .
We arrived when the bride and groom had finished exchanging the vows .
We watch movies at night .
She contested for miss Uganda in two thousand eighteen .
We cannot change anything about our past .
A number of successful people have failed before .
Some people have acquired wealth from participating in athletics .
She finds it hard to acknowledge defeat .
Street lights were placed alongside the road .
He was unhappy because his football team lost the match .
She is excited about her wedding .
Some people blame the government for the poverty in the country .
Who are some of the national heroes you know ?
She quit her job last year .
His interview was scheduled for ten o'clock in the morning .
Both husband and wife work in the same business .
Of what benefit is the constitution to the country .
How much money was allocated to the sports ministry ?
People want to invest in profitable businesses .
What are the benefits of practicing democracy in the country ?
Scientific wedding ceremonies are less costly .
His children do not show him any respect .
President delegates government officials to execute tasks on his behalf .
He comes from the Northern part of Uganda .
Some people did not qualify to participate in the Tokyo Olympics .
Musicians can easily become famous .
What inspired you to join politics ?
She does most of her work while sitting .
After his wife died ,  he married another woman .
He has been ill for over five years .
A person with weak immunity can easily fall sick .
Some illnesses can result into death .
Why is male circumcision important ?
What makes you happy ?
The general elections are carried out in Uganda every after a period of five years .
What kind of cases are taken to the High court ?
It is against the law to breach the terms of a contract .
Public campaigns were not carried out because of the ban on public gatherings during the pandemic .
What are the conditions for one to contest as a presidential candidate ?
She believes that her husband is innocent of the crime .
What kind of penalty is given to murderers ?
I mix honey in my milk tea instead of sugar .
Some football players have fans all over the world .
He is working hard in order to get the best score in the test .
The campaign season was very frustrating .
Parents financially contributed to the construction of the school chapel .
She is looking forward to getting a new job next month .
How many sides do dice have ?
I am not a fan of football .
Any player can score a goal during the match .
What causes high blood pressure in people ?
Different organizations have come up to advocate for gender equality .
When is a penalty offered during the football match ?
Smoking cigarettes is dangerous because it affects the lungs .
What is the use of a referee in a football match ?
It is human to make mistakes .
Racism and discrimination hinder unity in society .
Everything was explained in the video .
Some women can play football .
The prevalence of coronavirus has changed people's ways of living .
She has a master's degree in Business Administration .
He usually invites women to visit him at his home .
What are some of the countries that implemented the lockdown to curb the spread of the virus ?
She is the best fit for modeling .
The government distributed free mosquito nets to the public .
Since he had plenty of food during the lockdown ,  he gave out some to the needy .
Her parents denied her the opportunity of going to school .
She despised him because of his appearance .
The pair of shoes was properly wrapped in the box .
He had to pay a fine for violating traffic rules .
European countries have promoted football at an international level .
Eating a balanced diet helps in keeping our bodies healthy .
We believe that the pandemic will at one time cease to exist in the community .
How has the World Health Organization helped nations in fighting coronavirus ?
During the lockdown ,  everyone was required to stay at home .
When the coronavirus cases go down ,  the lockdown is lifted .
Uganda is recovering from the second wave of coronavirus .
She enjoys eating irish potatoes .
Leaders must be careful when making decisions that affect the general public .
He surprisingly won the elections .
Everyone praises her beauty .
There was an outbreak of coronavirus in two thousand nineteen .
Can animals get coronavirus ?
He is a basketball player .
How did coronavirus manage to spread all over the world ?
We split the jackfruit and shared it amongst ourselves .
Due to the pandemic ,  players played the game without spectators in the stadium .
A basketball team has five players .
I enjoy watching basketball matches .
She organized a party to celebrate her graduation .
Do you think wearing masks might have negative effects on our health ?
We did the examination under remote invigilation .
Coronavirus has killed a number of people all over the world .
The conference was scheduled to take place for one week only .
The outbreak of coronavirus was unexpected .
Some people rear monkeys at home .
The Tokyo Olympics were carried out amidst the pandemic .
China had the first coronavirus patients in the whole world .
He invested additional capital of one million Ugandan shillings in his business .
The community has been sensitized against the effects of coronavirus .
China is one of the densely populated countries .
He was knocked down by a car while riding a bicycle .
Accidents occur on the road because of careless road users .
Medical surgeries are usually expensive .
The hospital is responsible for every admitted patient .
What is the use of ventilators in a house ?
The old man is mentally unstable .
Some devil worshippers awaken the spirits of the dead .
Overspeeding is one of the causes of accidents on the road .
He uses his hand bike as a means of transport .
At what time is the sports news shown on television ?
He is a wonderful drama actor .
She promised herself not to trust anyone again .
He composes and writes his own songs .
The brothers were fighting over their inheritance .
He is too weak to fight anyone .
Which social media platforms do you use ?
How many athletes participated in the community marathon ?
He was arrested for driving while drunk .
Some people chose to take on sports as a career .
The tour vehicles transport tourists from one place to another .
A number of girls competed for the beauty queen crown .
The Tokyo Olympic games were originally scheduled to take place in two thousand twenty .
She enjoys watching movies during her leisure time .
Winning a world championship is considered the highest achievement for a player or participant .
He has inspired youths to actively engage in politics .
World widely people can interact via social media .
Drivers should be mindful of other road users .
She got a serious injury during the match .
How often are world championships held ?
He went back to his home immediately when the lockdown was lifted .
She is very passionate about playing basketball .
We sold our car and bought a new one .
What is the purpose of celebrating Father's Day ?
Fathers should be a good example to their sons .
Fathers are the heads of a family .
What roles are played by a father in a home ?
The Bible gives basic guidelines about life .
Her father died when she was still young .
Single mothers play both the role of a mother and father in the lives of their children .
Some men do not want to take up the responsibility of being a father .
Some fathers hardly have any time for their children .
She is proud of her father .
How does Uganda benefit from hosting refugees ?
People in refugee camps were also attacked by coronavirus .
What rights are refugees entitled to in the country ?
The government provides services to people irrespective of their tribes ,  gender and religion .
We can prevent diseases by eat maintaining proper hygiene and eating well .
Refugees across the country have greatly felt the effects of the lockdown .
What are some of the challenges faced by refugees in the country ?
Most refugees come from war-torn countries .
Different donations are made to support the refugees .
There are many refugees from the Democratic Republic of Congo and South Sudan .
There are many Asian foreigners in Uganda .
The team that won the match got a trophy .
Seasons come and go .
It is possible to score very many goals in a basketball match .
She records most of the things that happen to her in a diary .
Since she was the last ,  she was requested to repeat the class .
Football is the most common sport in Europe .
Coronavirus has been common among elderly people in society .
Her work contract has been renewed .
She went to the American embassy to do a visa interview .
Under what conditions can a contract be terminated ?
How much is a flight ticket from Uganda to the United States ?
What are some of the problems associated with hosting refugees in the country ?
Most refugees stay in camps .
Bureaucracy is indispensable in government organizations .
When is World Refugee Day ?
The United Nations has offered tremendous assistance to Uganda .
Respect yourself and others will also respect you .
Shelter is one of the basic human needs .
What role do local leaders play in society ?
Conflict ,  civil wars ,  natural calamities have caused people to move to new places .
What does a team need to qualify for the Champions League ?
Coronavirus spread to other countries in two thousand twenty .
He screamed out of joy when his team won the match .
The death of her baby frustrated her a lot .
Adopting to the winter season was a very big challenge for him .
The guests departed from the venue at ten o'clock in the night .
How big is a standard football pitch ?
She attempted to take alcohol and vomited .
Her son insulted her in public .
With deep humility ,  he apologized for all he had done .
Hanging around criminals could bring you trouble .
The football players are already on the pitch waiting for the referee to start the match .
He became popular for scoring many goals during the match .
What countries qualify to play in the Europa League ?
Unfortunately ,  the team he was supporting lost the match .
He was looking good in the jean trousers .
As a way of killing boredom ,  sometimes I play games on my phone .
There were very many participants in the singing competitions .
How long does a football match last ?
The team scored no goal in the first half of the match .
The electrician successfully climbed the electric pole .
She was given a six months maternity leave from work .
It is strange to fall in love at a very young age .
Sports players dedicate adequate time to prepare for the match .
Victims of coronavirus should not be allowed to mix with those who are not .
Let us avoid discriminating others .
The trip around the country will take three days .
The winner was crowned as the new miss Uganda .
It is a common tradition to wrap gifts .
Teams have substitute players that can replace an injured or ill player during the match .
She has a lot of time to spare during the day .
We can discover different things via the internet .
She is a person of very few words .
He promised to marry her .
What is that one thing that you will never forget in your entire life ?
His parents gave him all the necessary school requirements .
How many kingdoms are in Uganda ?
Arcades and shopping malls were closed during the lockdown .
Drivers who park their vehicles alongside the streets cause congestion in the city .
It is illegal for a business to operate without a license .
What should government do to reduce domestic violence ?
What are the dangers of domestic violence ?
Domestic violence has been on the rise during the lockdown .
On average how long do police investigations take ?
The dead body was taken to the hospital for cross-examination .
Most people do not work on Sunday .
You can acquire more knowledge through reading different books .
Do not write on the examination paper while attempting the exam .
All truck drivers should be vaccinated against coronavirus .
While some diseases are incurable others are curable .
When is a patient discharged from a hospital ?
Ambulances have a right of way on the road .
Hospitals and other health centers provide medication to patients .
She has an estimated net worth of two trillion Ugandan shillings .
What strategies should the government of Uganda set in place to fight corruption ?
People should be sensitized on the importance of male circumcision .
What do we need to create a corruption free country ?
My mother received compensation from the government for the damage caused to her property .
My uncle lost his job ,  this has created a financial setback in his family .
The government of Uganda loses a lot of money to corruption .
The policeman ordered the criminal to drop his weapon .
The procedure for getting a working visa in this country is complicated .
He earns little money from his current job .
He confiscated his brother's piece of land .
This sickness could be a result of drinking unboiled water .
He was released from prison after serving his twenty year sentence .
Only authorized personnel have access to these computers .
The taxi driver was given a severe penalty for violating the standard operating procedures .
The man was on trial for killing his wife .
We all have challenges in life .
Students with a school fees balance will not sit for the examinations .
I am not the one who committed that crime .
My boss has told me to arrange everything in order .
We are in the process of selling our house .
Do you have the evidence that the accused committed this crime ?
Assets represent the value of ownership that can be converted into cash .
You need to provide accountability for that event .
We must find ways to empower girls in education .
It is advisable to register all your properties in your name .
Students have to register in the attendance register each day they come to school .
She is the assistant head girl for our school .
It is illegal to drive a car without a driving permit .
I think my brother stole my phone and sold it .
The police called upon the public to provide information about the suspects .
The musician delayed arriving on stage .
Many studies have concluded that smoking is dangerous .
A spokesperson is someone who's chosen by a company to promote its brand .
The defendant would be able to respond to the charges in court on Monday .
The court dismissed our case .
I am sorry I was unable to attend your party .
That organization is paying school fees for ten orphans .
Uganda needs to transform its education system .
Her daughter is four years old .
Our target is to finish this work before midnight .
You might have left your phone at home .
The company is only recruiting youth below the age of thirty .
His father is the new Local Council three chairperson of Wakiso district .
The club intends to form volleyball and football teams in the future .
He is the best football player at our school .
Their goal is to win the interschool music championship .
Most companies promote their employees who are hardworking .
Most students in rural areas were not able to study online during the lockdown .
Companies need to advertise their products on social media platforms .
All the students in the university rugby team are finalists .
Our university canceled the online exams .
The government of Uganda should do more to promote the agricultural sector .
Some of the footballers study for free because of their talent .
She is the first graduate in the whole family .
That company is recruiting graduate trainees .
She made her research on the company before going for the interview .
We are collecting funds to renovate the church .
The government of Uganda finances the Uganda Cranes football club .
He is one of the students the bank offered to sponsor at the university .
My elder sister is currently unemployed .
We have a big sports ground at our school .
Uganda earns a lot of money from tourists .
Cutting down trees destroys wild animals' habitats .
Some parts of the country are sparsely populated .
He was caught poaching wild animals .
The government came up with a new law to protect wild animals .
The government donated land for constructing a new factory .
The oldest chimpanzee in Uganda died recently .
The farmer's crops were destroyed by the monkeys .
Many people want to buy that house because it has a big compound .
The king called for unity among his people .
The price of cooking oil has greatly increased .
The cement factory donated one hundred bags of cement to that school .
Most of the foreign investors in Uganda are from China .
Many people in Karamoja depend on cattle keeping as a source of livelihood .
She traveled to South Africa with her husband .
Oil was discovered along the shores of Lake Albert .
Stop playing in the rain .
The heavy rains destroyed his maize plantation .
Queen Elizabeth national park is the largest game park in Uganda .
Kenya banned sugarcane imports from Uganda .
He was appointed as the new chairperson of the Uganda National Examination Board .
The National Forestry Authority is responsible for conserving forests in Uganda .
His new building encroached on my land .
Many people in villages cut down trees to burn charcoal .
The police arrested many people who were moving past curfew time yesterday .
There is an increase in the number of street children in Uganda .
My brother is fond of wearing tight trousers .
Our school bus was involved in an accident .
There is usually heavy traffic in the morning and evening .
He promised to clear the debt by the end of the year .
A traffic police officer was knocked down by a speeding car .
The government spends a lot of money every year on road construction .
